---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>A Man With a Measuring Line </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then I looked up, and there before me was a man with a measuring line in his hand. </span>
<span class="verse xa_2_2"><sup>2</sup>I asked, “Where are you going?” <br/> He answered me, “To measure Jerusalem, to find out how wide and how long it is.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_2_3"> <sup>3</sup>While the angel who was speaking to me was leaving, another angel came to meet him </span>
<span class="verse xa_2_4"><sup>4</sup>and said to him: “Run, tell that young man, ‘Jerusalem will be a city without walls because of the great number of people and animals in it. </span>
<span class="verse xa_2_5"><sup>5</sup>And I myself will be a wall of fire around it,’ declares the Lord, ‘and I will be its glory within.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Come! Come! Flee from the land of the north,” declares the Lord, “for I have scattered you to the four winds of heaven,” declares the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Come, Zion! Escape, you who live in Daughter Babylon!” </span>
<span class="verse xa_2_8"><sup>8</sup>For this is what the Lord Almighty says: “After the Glorious One has sent me against the nations that have plundered you—for whoever touches you touches the apple of his eye— </span>
<span class="verse xa_2_9"><sup>9</sup>I will surely raise my hand against them so that their slaves will plunder them.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or says after … eye: 9“I … plunder them.”">⚓</a> Then you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_2_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Shout and be glad, Daughter Zion. For I am coming, and I will live among you,” declares the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xa_2_11"><sup>11</sup>“Many nations will be joined with the Lord in that day and will become my people. I will live among you and you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you. </span>
<span class="verse xa_2_12"><sup>12</sup>The Lord will inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land and will again choose Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse xa_2_13"><sup>13</sup>Be still before the Lord, all mankind, because he has roused himself from his holy dwelling.” <br/></span>
