---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Clean Garments for the High Priest </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew satan means adversary .">⚓</a> standing at his right side to accuse him. </span>
<span class="verse xa_3_2"><sup>2</sup>The Lord said to Satan, “The Lord rebuke you, Satan! The Lord, who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you! Is not this man a burning stick snatched from the fire?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_3_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now Joshua was dressed in filthy clothes as he stood before the angel. </span>
<span class="verse xa_3_4"><sup>4</sup>The angel said to those who were standing before him, “Take off his filthy clothes.” <br/> Then he said to Joshua, “See, I have taken away your sin, and I will put fine garments on you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then I said, “Put a clean turban on his head.” So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him, while the angel of the Lord stood by. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_3_6"> <sup>6</sup>The angel of the Lord gave this charge to Joshua: </span>
<span class="verse xa_3_7"><sup>7</sup>“This is what the Lord Almighty says: ‘If you will walk in obedience to me and keep my requirements, then you will govern my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you a place among these standing here. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_3_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘Listen, High Priest Joshua, you and your associates seated before you, who are men symbolic of things to come: I am going to bring my servant, the Branch. </span>
<span class="verse xa_3_9"><sup>9</sup>See, the stone I have set in front of Joshua! There are seven eyes<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or facets">⚓</a> on that one stone, and I will engrave an inscription on it,’ says the Lord Almighty, ‘and I will remove the sin of this land in a single day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘In that day each of you will invite your neighbor to sit under your vine and fig tree,’ declares the Lord Almighty.” <br/></span>
