---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Justice and Mercy, Not Fasting </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the fourth year of King Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, the month of Kislev. </span>
<span class="verse xa_7_2"><sup>2</sup>The people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regem-Melek, together with their men, to entreat the Lord</span>
<span class="verse xa_7_3"><sup>3</sup>by asking the priests of the house of the Lord Almighty and the prophets, “Should I mourn and fast in the fifth month, as I have done for so many years?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then the word of the Lord Almighty came to me: </span>
<span class="verse xa_7_5"><sup>5</sup>“Ask all the people of the land and the priests, ‘When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh months for the past seventy years, was it really for me that you fasted? </span>
<span class="verse xa_7_6"><sup>6</sup>And when you were eating and drinking, were you not just feasting for yourselves? </span>
<span class="verse xa_7_7"><sup>7</sup>Are these not the words the Lord proclaimed through the earlier prophets when Jerusalem and its surrounding towns were at rest and prosperous, and the Negev and the western foothills were settled?’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_7_8"> <sup>8</sup>And the word of the Lord came again to Zechariah: </span>
<span class="verse xa_7_9"><sup>9</sup>“This is what the Lord Almighty said: ‘Administer true justice; show mercy and compassion to one another. </span>
<span class="verse xa_7_10"><sup>10</sup>Do not oppress the widow or the fatherless, the foreigner or the poor. Do not plot evil against each other.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_7_11"> <sup>11</sup>“But they refused to pay attention; stubbornly they turned their backs and covered their ears. </span>
<span class="verse xa_7_12"><sup>12</sup>They made their hearts as hard as flint and would not listen to the law or to the words that the Lord Almighty had sent by his Spirit through the earlier prophets. So the Lord Almighty was very angry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘When I called, they did not listen; so when they called, I would not listen,’ says the Lord Almighty. </span>
<span class="verse xa_7_14"><sup>14</sup>‘I scattered them with a whirlwind among all the nations, where they were strangers. The land they left behind them was so desolate that no one traveled through it. This is how they made the pleasant land desolate.’ ” <br/></span>
