---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The Lord Promises to Bless Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord Almighty came to me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_2"> <sup>2</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “I am very jealous for Zion; I am burning with jealousy for her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_3"> <sup>3</sup>This is what the Lord says: “I will return to Zion and dwell in Jerusalem. Then Jerusalem will be called the Faithful City, and the mountain of the Lord Almighty will be called the Holy Mountain.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_4"> <sup>4</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “Once again men and women of ripe old age will sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each of them with cane in hand because of their age. </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_5"><sup>5</sup>The city streets will be filled with boys and girls playing there.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_6"> <sup>6</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “It may seem marvelous to the remnant of this people at that time, but will it seem marvelous to me?” declares the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_7"> <sup>7</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “I will save my people from the countries of the east and the west. </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_8"><sup>8</sup>I will bring them back to live in Jerusalem; they will be my people, and I will be faithful and righteous to them as their God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “Now hear these words, ‘Let your hands be strong so that the temple may be built.’ This is also what the prophets said who were present when the foundation was laid for the house of the Lord Almighty. </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_10"><sup>10</sup>Before that time there were no wages for people or hire for animals. No one could go about their business safely because of their enemies, since I had turned everyone against their neighbor. </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_11"><sup>11</sup>But now I will not deal with the remnant of this people as I did in the past,” declares the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_12"> <sup>12</sup>“The seed will grow well, the vine will yield its fruit, the ground will produce its crops, and the heavens will drop their dew. I will give all these things as an inheritance to the remnant of this people. </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_13"><sup>13</sup>Just as you, Judah and Israel, have been a curse<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, your name has been used in cursing (see Jer. 29:22); or, you have been regarded as under a curse.">⚓</a> among the nations, so I will save you, and you will be a blessing.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and your name will be used in blessings (see Gen. 48:20); or and you will be seen as blessed">⚓</a> Do not be afraid, but let your hands be strong.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_14"> <sup>14</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “Just as I had determined to bring disaster on you and showed no pity when your ancestors angered me,” says the Lord Almighty, </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_15"><sup>15</sup>“so now I have determined to do good again to Jerusalem and Judah. Do not be afraid. </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_16"><sup>16</sup>These are the things you are to do: Speak the truth to each other, and render true and sound judgment in your courts; </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_17"><sup>17</sup>do not plot evil against each other, and do not love to swear falsely. I hate all this,” declares the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_18"> <sup>18</sup>The word of the Lord Almighty came to me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_19"> <sup>19</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “The fasts of the fourth, fifth, seventh and tenth months will become joyful and glad occasions and happy festivals for Judah. Therefore love truth and peace.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_20"> <sup>20</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “Many peoples and the inhabitants of many cities will yet come, </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_21"><sup>21</sup>and the inhabitants of one city will go to another and say, ‘Let us go at once to entreat the Lord and seek the Lord Almighty. I myself am going.’ </span>
<span class="verse xa_8_22"><sup>22</sup>And many peoples and powerful nations will come to Jerusalem to seek the Lord Almighty and to entreat him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_8_23"> <sup>23</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: “In those days ten people from all languages and nations will take firm hold of one Jew by the hem of his robe and say, ‘Let us go with you, because we have heard that God is with you.’ ” <br/></span>
