---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>Judgment on Israel’s Enemies </h3><i>1A prophecy:</i></div>
<span class="verse xa_9_1">  The word of the Lord is against the land of Hadrak <br/>   and will come to rest on Damascus— <br/>  for the eyes of all people and all the tribes of Israel <br/>   are on the Lord—<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Damascus. / For the eye of the Lordis on all people, / as well as on the tribes of Israel,">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_2">  <sup>2</sup>and on Hamath too, which borders on it, <br/>   and on Tyre and Sidon, though they are very skillful. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_3">  <sup>3</sup>Tyre has built herself a stronghold; <br/>   she has heaped up silver like dust, <br/>   and gold like the dirt of the streets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_4">  <sup>4</sup>But the Lord will take away her possessions <br/>   and destroy her power on the sea, <br/>   and she will be consumed by fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_5">  <sup>5</sup>Ashkelon will see it and fear; <br/>   Gaza will writhe in agony, <br/>   and Ekron too, for her hope will wither. <br/>  Gaza will lose her king <br/>   and Ashkelon will be deserted. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_6">  <sup>6</sup>A mongrel people will occupy Ashdod, <br/>   and I will put an end to the pride of the Philistines. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_7">  <sup>7</sup>I will take the blood from their mouths, <br/>   the forbidden food from between their teeth. <br/>  Those who are left will belong to our God <br/>   and become a clan in Judah, <br/>   and Ekron will be like the Jebusites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_8">  <sup>8</sup>But I will encamp at my temple <br/>   to guard it against marauding forces. <br/>  Never again will an oppressor overrun my people, <br/>   for now I am keeping watch. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Coming of Zion’s King </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_9_9">  <sup>9</sup>Rejoice greatly, Daughter Zion! <br/>   Shout, Daughter Jerusalem! <br/>  See, your king comes to you, <br/>   righteous and victorious, <br/>  lowly and riding on a donkey, <br/>   on a colt, the foal of a donkey. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_10">  <sup>10</sup>I will take away the chariots from Ephraim <br/>   and the warhorses from Jerusalem, <br/>   and the battle bow will be broken. <br/>  He will proclaim peace to the nations. <br/>   His rule will extend from sea to sea <br/>   and from the River<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the Euphrates">⚓</a> to the ends of the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_11">  <sup>11</sup>As for you, because of the blood of my covenant with you, <br/>   I will free your prisoners from the waterless pit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_12">  <sup>12</sup>Return to your fortress, you prisoners of hope; <br/>   even now I announce that I will restore twice as much to you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_13">  <sup>13</sup>I will bend Judah as I bend my bow <br/>   and fill it with Ephraim. <br/>  I will rouse your sons, Zion, <br/>   against your sons, Greece, <br/>   and make you like a warrior’s sword. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Lord Will Appear </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_9_14">  <sup>14</sup>Then the Lord will appear over them; <br/>   his arrow will flash like lightning. <br/>  The Sovereign Lord will sound the trumpet; <br/>   he will march in the storms of the south, <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_15">   <sup>15</sup>and the Lord Almighty will shield them. <br/>  They will destroy <br/>   and overcome with slingstones. <br/>  They will drink and roar as with wine; <br/>   they will be full like a bowl <br/>   used for sprinkling<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or bowl, / like">⚓</a> the corners of the altar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_16">  <sup>16</sup>The Lord their God will save his people on that day <br/>   as a shepherd saves his flock. <br/>  They will sparkle in his land <br/>   like jewels in a crown. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_9_17">  <sup>17</sup>How attractive and beautiful they will be! <br/>   Grain will make the young men thrive, <br/>   and new wine the young women. <br/></span>
