---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Lord Will Care for Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_10_1">  <sup>1</sup>Ask the Lord for rain in the springtime; <br/>   it is the Lord who sends the thunderstorms. <br/>  He gives showers of rain to all people, <br/>   and plants of the field to everyone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_2">  <sup>2</sup>The idols speak deceitfully, <br/>   diviners see visions that lie; <br/>  they tell dreams that are false, <br/>   they give comfort in vain. <br/>  Therefore the people wander like sheep <br/>   oppressed for lack of a shepherd. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_3">  <sup>3</sup>“My anger burns against the shepherds, <br/>   and I will punish the leaders; <br/>  for the Lord Almighty will care <br/>   for his flock, the people of Judah, <br/>   and make them like a proud horse in battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_4">  <sup>4</sup>From Judah will come the cornerstone, <br/>   from him the tent peg, <br/>  from him the battle bow, <br/>   from him every ruler. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_5">  <sup>5</sup>Together they<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or ruler, all of them together. / 5They">⚓</a> will be like warriors in battle <br/>   trampling their enemy into the mud of the streets. <br/>  They will fight because the Lord is with them, <br/>   and they will put the enemy horsemen to shame. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_6">  <sup>6</sup>“I will strengthen Judah <br/>   and save the tribes of Joseph. <br/>  I will restore them <br/>   because I have compassion on them. <br/>  They will be as though <br/>   I had not rejected them, <br/>  for I am the Lord their God <br/>   and I will answer them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_7">  <sup>7</sup>The Ephraimites will become like warriors, <br/>   and their hearts will be glad as with wine. <br/>  Their children will see it and be joyful; <br/>   their hearts will rejoice in the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_8">  <sup>8</sup>I will signal for them <br/>   and gather them in. <br/>  Surely I will redeem them; <br/>   they will be as numerous as before. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_9">  <sup>9</sup>Though I scatter them among the peoples, <br/>   yet in distant lands they will remember me. <br/>  They and their children will survive, <br/>   and they will return. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_10">  <sup>10</sup>I will bring them back from Egypt <br/>   and gather them from Assyria. <br/>  I will bring them to Gilead and Lebanon, <br/>   and there will not be room enough for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_11">  <sup>11</sup>They will pass through the sea of trouble; <br/>   the surging sea will be subdued <br/>   and all the depths of the Nile will dry up. <br/>  Assyria’s pride will be brought down <br/>   and Egypt’s scepter will pass away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_10_12">  <sup>12</sup>I will strengthen them in the Lord<br/>   and in his name they will live securely,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
