---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1></div>
<span class="verse xa_11_1">  <sup>1</sup>Open your doors, Lebanon, <br/>   so that fire may devour your cedars! <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_2">  <sup>2</sup>Wail, you juniper, for the cedar has fallen; <br/>   the stately trees are ruined! <br/>  Wail, oaks of Bashan; <br/>   the dense forest has been cut down! <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_3">  <sup>3</sup>Listen to the wail of the shepherds; <br/>   their rich pastures are destroyed! <br/>  Listen to the roar of the lions; <br/>   the lush thicket of the Jordan is ruined! <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Two Shepherds </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>This is what the Lord my God says: “Shepherd the flock marked for slaughter. </span>
<span class="verse xa_11_5"><sup>5</sup>Their buyers slaughter them and go unpunished. Those who sell them say, ‘Praise the Lord, I am rich!’ Their own shepherds do not spare them. </span>
<span class="verse xa_11_6"><sup>6</sup>For I will no longer have pity on the people of the land,” declares the Lord. “I will give everyone into the hands of their neighbors and their king. They will devastate the land, and I will not rescue anyone from their hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>So I shepherded the flock marked for slaughter, particularly the oppressed of the flock. Then I took two staffs and called one Favor and the other Union, and I shepherded the flock. </span>
<span class="verse xa_11_8"><sup>8</sup>In one month I got rid of the three shepherds. <br/> The flock detested me, and I grew weary of them </span>
<span class="verse xa_11_9"><sup>9</sup>and said, “I will not be your shepherd. Let the dying die, and the perishing perish. Let those who are left eat one another’s flesh.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then I took my staff called Favor and broke it, revoking the covenant I had made with all the nations. </span>
<span class="verse xa_11_11"><sup>11</sup>It was revoked on that day, and so the oppressed of the flock who were watching me knew it was the word of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_12"> <sup>12</sup>I told them, “If you think it best, give me my pay; but if not, keep it.” So they paid me thirty pieces of silver. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>And the Lord said to me, “Throw it to the potter”—the handsome price at which they valued me! So I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them to the potter at the house of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then I broke my second staff called Union, breaking the family bond between Judah and Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the Lord said to me, “Take again the equipment of a foolish shepherd. </span>
<span class="verse xa_11_16"><sup>16</sup>For I am going to raise up a shepherd over the land who will not care for the lost, or seek the young, or heal the injured, or feed the healthy, but will eat the meat of the choice sheep, tearing off their hooves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_11_17">  <sup>17</sup>“Woe to the worthless shepherd, <br/>   who deserts the flock! <br/>  May the sword strike his arm and his right eye! <br/>   May his arm be completely withered, <br/>   his right eye totally blinded!” <br/></span>
