---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Jerusalem’s Enemies to Be Destroyed </h3><i>1A prophecy: The word of the Lord concerning Israel.</i></div>
<span class="verse xa_12_1"> The Lord, who stretches out the heavens, who lays the foundation of the earth, and who forms the human spirit within a person, declares: </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_2"><sup>2</sup>“I am going to make Jerusalem a cup that sends all the surrounding peoples reeling. Judah will be besieged as well as Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_3"><sup>3</sup>On that day, when all the nations of the earth are gathered against her, I will make Jerusalem an immovable rock for all the nations. All who try to move it will injure themselves. </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_4"><sup>4</sup>On that day I will strike every horse with panic and its rider with madness,” declares the Lord. “I will keep a watchful eye over Judah, but I will blind all the horses of the nations. </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_5"><sup>5</sup>Then the clans of Judah will say in their hearts, ‘The people of Jerusalem are strong, because the Lord Almighty is their God.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_12_6"> <sup>6</sup>“On that day I will make the clans of Judah like a firepot in a woodpile, like a flaming torch among sheaves. They will consume all the surrounding peoples right and left, but Jerusalem will remain intact in her place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>“The Lord will save the dwellings of Judah first, so that the honor of the house of David and of Jerusalem’s inhabitants may not be greater than that of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_8"><sup>8</sup>On that day the Lord will shield those who live in Jerusalem, so that the feeblest among them will be like David, and the house of David will be like God, like the angel of the Lord going before them. </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_9"><sup>9</sup>On that day I will set out to destroy all the nations that attack Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Mourning for the One They Pierced </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_12_10"> <sup>10</sup>“And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Spirit">⚓</a> of grace and supplication. They will look on<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to">⚓</a> me, the one they have pierced, and they will mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and grieve bitterly for him as one grieves for a firstborn son. </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_11"><sup>11</sup>On that day the weeping in Jerusalem will be as great as the weeping of Hadad Rimmon in the plain of Megiddo. </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_12"><sup>12</sup>The land will mourn, each clan by itself, with their wives by themselves: the clan of the house of David and their wives, the clan of the house of Nathan and their wives, </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_13"><sup>13</sup>the clan of the house of Levi and their wives, the clan of Shimei and their wives, </span>
<span class="verse xa_12_14"><sup>14</sup>and all the rest of the clans and their wives. <br/></span>
