---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Cleansing From Sin </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>“On that day a fountain will be opened to the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to cleanse them from sin and impurity. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_13_2"> <sup>2</sup>“On that day, I will banish the names of the idols from the land, and they will be remembered no more,” declares the Lord Almighty. “I will remove both the prophets and the spirit of impurity from the land. </span>
<span class="verse xa_13_3"><sup>3</sup>And if anyone still prophesies, their father and mother, to whom they were born, will say to them, ‘You must die, because you have told lies in the Lord’s name.’ Then their own parents will stab the one who prophesies. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_13_4"> <sup>4</sup>“On that day every prophet will be ashamed of their prophetic vision. They will not put on a prophet’s garment of hair in order to deceive. </span>
<span class="verse xa_13_5"><sup>5</sup>Each will say, ‘I am not a prophet. I am a farmer; the land has been my livelihood since my youth.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or farmer; a man sold me in my youth">⚓</a> ’ </span>
<span class="verse xa_13_6"><sup>6</sup>If someone asks, ‘What are these wounds on your body<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or wounds between your hands">⚓</a> ?’ they will answer, ‘The wounds I was given at the house of my friends.’ <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Shepherd Struck, the Sheep Scattered </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_13_7">  <sup>7</sup>“Awake, sword, against my shepherd, <br/>   against the man who is close to me!” <br/>   declares the Lord Almighty. <br/>  “Strike the shepherd, <br/>   and the sheep will be scattered, <br/>   and I will turn my hand against the little ones. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_13_8">  <sup>8</sup>In the whole land,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “two-thirds will be struck down and perish; <br/>   yet one-third will be left in it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_13_9">  <sup>9</sup>This third I will put into the fire; <br/>   I will refine them like silver <br/>   and test them like gold. <br/>  They will call on my name <br/>   and I will answer them; <br/>  I will say, ‘They are my people,’ <br/>   and they will say, ‘The Lord is our God.’ ” <br/></span>
