---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zechariah 
bookNumber: 38
audio: \Audio\NIV\xa\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>The Lord Comes and Reigns </h3></div>
<span class="verse xa_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>A day of the Lord is coming, Jerusalem, when your possessions will be plundered and divided up within your very walls. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_14_2"> <sup>2</sup>I will gather all the nations to Jerusalem to fight against it; the city will be captured, the houses ransacked, and the women raped. Half of the city will go into exile, but the rest of the people will not be taken from the city. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_3"><sup>3</sup>Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations, as he fights on a day of battle. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_4"><sup>4</sup>On that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, east of Jerusalem, and the Mount of Olives will be split in two from east to west, forming a great valley, with half of the mountain moving north and half moving south. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_5"><sup>5</sup>You will flee by my mountain valley, for it will extend to Azel. You will flee as you fled from the earthquake<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or 5My mountain valley will be blocked and will extend to Azel. It will be blocked as it was blocked because of the earthquake">⚓</a> in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come, and all the holy ones with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_14_6"> <sup>6</sup>On that day there will be neither sunlight nor cold, frosty darkness. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_7"><sup>7</sup>It will be a unique day—a day known only to the Lord—with no distinction between day and night. When evening comes, there will be light. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_14_8"> <sup>8</sup>On that day living water will flow out from Jerusalem, half of it east to the Dead Sea and half of it west to the Mediterranean Sea, in summer and in winter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_14_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Lord will be king over the whole earth. On that day there will be one Lord, and his name the only name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_14_10"> <sup>10</sup>The whole land, from Geba to Rimmon, south of Jerusalem, will become like the Arabah. But Jerusalem will be raised up high from the Benjamin Gate to the site of the First Gate, to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the royal winepresses, and will remain in its place. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_11"><sup>11</sup>It will be inhabited; never again will it be destroyed. Jerusalem will be secure. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_14_12"> <sup>12</sup>This is the plague with which the Lord will strike all the nations that fought against Jerusalem: Their flesh will rot while they are still standing on their feet, their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_13"><sup>13</sup>On that day people will be stricken by the Lord with great panic. They will seize each other by the hand and attack one another. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_14"><sup>14</sup>Judah too will fight at Jerusalem. The wealth of all the surrounding nations will be collected—great quantities of gold and silver and clothing. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_15"><sup>15</sup>A similar plague will strike the horses and mules, the camels and donkeys, and all the animals in those camps. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_14_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then the survivors from all the nations that have attacked Jerusalem will go up year after year to worship the King, the Lord Almighty, and to celebrate the Festival of Tabernacles. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_17"><sup>17</sup>If any of the peoples of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the Lord Almighty, they will have no rain. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_18"><sup>18</sup>If the Egyptian people do not go up and take part, they will have no rain. The Lord<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or part, then the Lord">⚓</a> will bring on them the plague he inflicts on the nations that do not go up to celebrate the Festival of Tabernacles. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_19"><sup>19</sup>This will be the punishment of Egypt and the punishment of all the nations that do not go up to celebrate the Festival of Tabernacles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xa_14_20"> <sup>20</sup>On that day holy to the Lord will be inscribed on the bells of the horses, and the cooking pots in the Lord’s house will be like the sacred bowls in front of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse xa_14_21"><sup>21</sup>Every pot in Jerusalem and Judah will be holy to the Lord Almighty, and all who come to sacrifice will take some of the pots and cook in them. And on that day there will no longer be a Canaanite<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or merchant">⚓</a> in the house of the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
