---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Thessalonians 
bookNumber: 53
audio: \Audio\NIV\2te\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2te_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, Silas<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Silvanus , a variant of Silas">⚓</a> and Timothy, <br/> To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>Grace and peace to you from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Thanksgiving and Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2te_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>We ought always to thank God for you, brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in 2:1, 13, 15; 3:1, 6, 13.">⚓</a> and rightly so, because your faith is growing more and more, and the love all of you have for one another is increasing. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_4"><sup>4</sup>Therefore, among God’s churches we boast about your perseverance and faith in all the persecutions and trials you are enduring. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>All this is evidence that God’s judgment is right, and as a result you will be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are suffering. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_6"><sup>6</sup>God is just: He will pay back trouble to those who trouble you </span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_7"><sup>7</sup>and give relief to you who are troubled, and to us as well. This will happen when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven in blazing fire with his powerful angels. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_8"><sup>8</sup>He will punish those who do not know God and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_9"><sup>9</sup>They will be punished with everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might </span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_10"><sup>10</sup>on the day he comes to be glorified in his holy people and to be marveled at among all those who have believed. This includes you, because you believed our testimony to you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>With this in mind, we constantly pray for you, that our God may make you worthy of his calling, and that by his power he may bring to fruition your every desire for goodness and your every deed prompted by faith. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_1_12"><sup>12</sup>We pray this so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or God and Lord, Jesus Christ">⚓</a><br/></span>
