---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Thessalonians 
bookNumber: 53
audio: \Audio\NIV\2te\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>The Man of Lawlessness </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2te_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered to him, we ask you, brothers and sisters, </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_2"><sup>2</sup>not to become easily unsettled or alarmed by the teaching allegedly from us—whether by a prophecy or by word of mouth or by letter—asserting that the day of the Lord has already come. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_3"><sup>3</sup>Don’t let anyone deceive you in any way, for that day will not come until the rebellion occurs and the man of lawlessness<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts sin">⚓</a> is revealed, the man doomed to destruction. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_4"><sup>4</sup>He will oppose and will exalt himself over everything that is called God or is worshiped, so that he sets himself up in God’s temple, proclaiming himself to be God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>Don’t you remember that when I was with you I used to tell you these things? </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_6"><sup>6</sup>And now you know what is holding him back, so that he may be revealed at the proper time. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_7"><sup>7</sup>For the secret power of lawlessness is already at work; but the one who now holds it back will continue to do so till he is taken out of the way. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_8"><sup>8</sup>And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will overthrow with the breath of his mouth and destroy by the splendor of his coming. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_9"><sup>9</sup>The coming of the lawless one will be in accordance with how Satan works. He will use all sorts of displays of power through signs and wonders that serve the lie, </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_10"><sup>10</sup>and all the ways that wickedness deceives those who are perishing. They perish because they refused to love the truth and so be saved. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_11"><sup>11</sup>For this reason God sends them a powerful delusion so that they will believe the lie </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_12"><sup>12</sup>and so that all will be condemned who have not believed the truth but have delighted in wickedness. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Stand Firm </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2te_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>But we ought always to thank God for you, brothers and sisters loved by the Lord, because God chose you as firstfruits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts because from the beginning God chose you">⚓</a> to be saved through the sanctifying work of the Spirit and through belief in the truth. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_14"><sup>14</sup>He called you to this through our gospel, that you might share in the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>So then, brothers and sisters, stand firm and hold fast to the teachings<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or traditions">⚓</a> we passed on to you, whether by word of mouth or by letter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_16"> <sup>16</sup>May our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father, who loved us and by his grace gave us eternal encouragement and good hope, </span>
<span class="verse 2te_2_17"><sup>17</sup>encourage your hearts and strengthen you in every good deed and word. <br/></span>
