---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Thessalonians 
bookNumber: 53
audio: \Audio\NIV\2te\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Request for Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2te_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>As for other matters, brothers and sisters, pray for us that the message of the Lord may spread rapidly and be honored, just as it was with you. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_2"><sup>2</sup>And pray that we may be delivered from wicked and evil people, for not everyone has faith. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_3"><sup>3</sup>But the Lord is faithful, and he will strengthen you and protect you from the evil one. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_4"><sup>4</sup>We have confidence in the Lord that you are doing and will continue to do the things we command. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_5"><sup>5</sup>May the Lord direct your hearts into God’s love and Christ’s perseverance. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Warning Against Idleness </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2te_3_6"> <sup>6</sup>In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we command you, brothers and sisters, to keep away from every believer who is idle and disruptive and does not live according to the teaching<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or tradition">⚓</a> you received from us. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_7"><sup>7</sup>For you yourselves know how you ought to follow our example. We were not idle when we were with you, </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_8"><sup>8</sup>nor did we eat anyone’s food without paying for it. On the contrary, we worked night and day, laboring and toiling so that we would not be a burden to any of you. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_9"><sup>9</sup>We did this, not because we do not have the right to such help, but in order to offer ourselves as a model for you to imitate. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_10"><sup>10</sup>For even when we were with you, we gave you this rule: “The one who is unwilling to work shall not eat.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>We hear that some among you are idle and disruptive. They are not busy; they are busybodies. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_12"><sup>12</sup>Such people we command and urge in the Lord Jesus Christ to settle down and earn the food they eat. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_13"><sup>13</sup>And as for you, brothers and sisters, never tire of doing what is good. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>Take special note of anyone who does not obey our instruction in this letter. Do not associate with them, in order that they may feel ashamed. </span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_15"><sup>15</sup>Yet do not regard them as an enemy, but warn them as you would a fellow believer. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Greetings </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2te_3_16"> <sup>16</sup>Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times and in every way. The Lord be with all of you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_17"> <sup>17</sup>I, Paul, write this greeting in my own hand, which is the distinguishing mark in all my letters. This is how I write. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2te_3_18"> <sup>18</sup>The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. <br/></span>
