---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Israel Fights the Remaining Canaanites </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>After the death of Joshua, the Israelites asked the Lord, “Who of us is to go up first to fight against the Canaanites?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>The Lord answered, “Judah shall go up; I have given the land into their hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>The men of Judah then said to the Simeonites their fellow Israelites, “Come up with us into the territory allotted to us, to fight against the Canaanites. We in turn will go with you into yours.” So the Simeonites went with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>When Judah attacked, the Lord gave the Canaanites and Perizzites into their hands, and they struck down ten thousand men at Bezek. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_5"><sup>5</sup>It was there that they found Adoni-Bezek and fought against him, putting to rout the Canaanites and Perizzites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_6"><sup>6</sup>Adoni-Bezek fled, but they chased him and caught him, and cut off his thumbs and big toes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then Adoni-Bezek said, “Seventy kings with their thumbs and big toes cut off have picked up scraps under my table. Now God has paid me back for what I did to them.” They brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>The men of Judah attacked Jerusalem also and took it. They put the city to the sword and set it on fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>After that, Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites living in the hill country, the Negev and the western foothills. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_10"><sup>10</sup>They advanced against the Canaanites living in Hebron (formerly called Kiriath Arba) and defeated Sheshai, Ahiman and Talmai. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_11"><sup>11</sup>From there they advanced against the people living in Debir (formerly called Kiriath Sepher). <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>And Caleb said, “I will give my daughter Aksah in marriage to the man who attacks and captures Kiriath Sepher.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_13"><sup>13</sup>Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother, took it; so Caleb gave his daughter Aksah to him in marriage. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_14"> <sup>14</sup>One day when she came to Othniel, she urged him<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate Othniel, he urged her">⚓</a> to ask her father for a field. When she got off her donkey, Caleb asked her, “What can I do for you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>She replied, “Do me a special favor. Since you have given me land in the Negev, give me also springs of water.” So Caleb gave her the upper and lower springs. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>The descendants of Moses’ father-in-law, the Kenite, went up from the City of Palms<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Jericho">⚓</a> with the people of Judah to live among the inhabitants of the Desert of Judah in the Negev near Arad. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then the men of Judah went with the Simeonites their fellow Israelites and attacked the Canaanites living in Zephath, and they totally destroyed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them.">⚓</a> the city. Therefore it was called Hormah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means destruction.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_18"><sup>18</sup>Judah also took<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint Judah did not take">⚓</a> Gaza, Ashkelon and Ekron—each city with its territory. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>The Lord was with the men of Judah. They took possession of the hill country, but they were unable to drive the people from the plains, because they had chariots fitted with iron. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_20"><sup>20</sup>As Moses had promised, Hebron was given to Caleb, who drove from it the three sons of Anak. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_21"><sup>21</sup>The Benjamites, however, did not drive out the Jebusites, who were living in Jerusalem; to this day the Jebusites live there with the Benjamites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>Now the tribes of Joseph attacked Bethel, and the Lord was with them. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_23"><sup>23</sup>When they sent men to spy out Bethel (formerly called Luz), </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_24"><sup>24</sup>the spies saw a man coming out of the city and they said to him, “Show us how to get into the city and we will see that you are treated well.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_25"><sup>25</sup>So he showed them, and they put the city to the sword but spared the man and his whole family. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_26"><sup>26</sup>He then went to the land of the Hittites, where he built a city and called it Luz, which is its name to this day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_1_27"> <sup>27</sup>But Manasseh did not drive out the people of Beth Shan or Taanach or Dor or Ibleam or Megiddo and their surrounding settlements, for the Canaanites were determined to live in that land. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_28"><sup>28</sup>When Israel became strong, they pressed the Canaanites into forced labor but never drove them out completely. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_29"><sup>29</sup>Nor did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites living in Gezer, but the Canaanites continued to live there among them. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_30"><sup>30</sup>Neither did Zebulun drive out the Canaanites living in Kitron or Nahalol, so these Canaanites lived among them, but Zebulun did subject them to forced labor. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_31"><sup>31</sup>Nor did Asher drive out those living in Akko or Sidon or Ahlab or Akzib or Helbah or Aphek or Rehob. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_32"><sup>32</sup>The Asherites lived among the Canaanite inhabitants of the land because they did not drive them out. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_33"><sup>33</sup>Neither did Naphtali drive out those living in Beth Shemesh or Beth Anath; but the Naphtalites too lived among the Canaanite inhabitants of the land, and those living in Beth Shemesh and Beth Anath became forced laborers for them. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_34"><sup>34</sup>The Amorites confined the Danites to the hill country, not allowing them to come down into the plain. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_35"><sup>35</sup>And the Amorites were determined also to hold out in Mount Heres, Aijalon and Shaalbim, but when the power of the tribes of Joseph increased, they too were pressed into forced labor. </span>
<span class="verse cac_1_36"><sup>36</sup>The boundary of the Amorites was from Scorpion Pass to Sela and beyond. <br/></span>
