---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>The Angel of the Lord at Bokim </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>The angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bokim and said, “I brought you up out of Egypt and led you into the land I swore to give to your ancestors. I said, ‘I will never break my covenant with you, </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_2"><sup>2</sup>and you shall not make a covenant with the people of this land, but you shall break down their altars.’ Yet you have disobeyed me. Why have you done this? </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_3"><sup>3</sup>And I have also said, ‘I will not drive them out before you; they will become traps for you, and their gods will become snares to you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>When the angel of the Lord had spoken these things to all the Israelites, the people wept aloud, </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_5"><sup>5</sup>and they called that place Bokim.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means weepers.">⚓</a> There they offered sacrifices to the Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Disobedience and Defeat </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>After Joshua had dismissed the Israelites, they went to take possession of the land, each to their own inheritance. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_7"><sup>7</sup>The people served the Lord throughout the lifetime of Joshua and of the elders who outlived him and who had seen all the great things the Lord had done for Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>Joshua son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died at the age of a hundred and ten. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_9"><sup>9</sup>And they buried him in the land of his inheritance, at Timnath Heres<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Also known as Timnath Serah (see Joshua 19:50 and 24:30)">⚓</a> in the hill country of Ephraim, north of Mount Gaash. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_2_10"> <sup>10</sup>After that whole generation had been gathered to their ancestors, another generation grew up who knew neither the Lord nor what he had done for Israel. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_11"><sup>11</sup>Then the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord and served the Baals. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_12"><sup>12</sup>They forsook the Lord, the God of their ancestors, who had brought them out of Egypt. They followed and worshiped various gods of the peoples around them. They aroused the Lord’s anger </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_13"><sup>13</sup>because they forsook him and served Baal and the Ashtoreths. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_14"><sup>14</sup>In his anger against Israel the Lord gave them into the hands of raiders who plundered them. He sold them into the hands of their enemies all around, whom they were no longer able to resist. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_15"><sup>15</sup>Whenever Israel went out to fight, the hand of the Lord was against them to defeat them, just as he had sworn to them. They were in great distress. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_2_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then the Lord raised up judges,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or leaders ; similarly in verses 17-19">⚓</a> who saved them out of the hands of these raiders. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_17"><sup>17</sup>Yet they would not listen to their judges but prostituted themselves to other gods and worshiped them. They quickly turned from the ways of their ancestors, who had been obedient to the Lord’s commands. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_18"><sup>18</sup>Whenever the Lord raised up a judge for them, he was with the judge and saved them out of the hands of their enemies as long as the judge lived; for the Lord relented because of their groaning under those who oppressed and afflicted them. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_19"><sup>19</sup>But when the judge died, the people returned to ways even more corrupt than those of their ancestors, following other gods and serving and worshiping them. They refused to give up their evil practices and stubborn ways. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>Therefore the Lord was very angry with Israel and said, “Because this nation has violated the covenant I ordained for their ancestors and has not listened to me, </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_21"><sup>21</sup>I will no longer drive out before them any of the nations Joshua left when he died. </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_22"><sup>22</sup>I will use them to test Israel and see whether they will keep the way of the Lord and walk in it as their ancestors did.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_2_23"><sup>23</sup>The Lord had allowed those nations to remain; he did not drive them out at once by giving them into the hands of Joshua. <br/></span>
