---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1></div>
<span class="verse cac_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>These are the nations the Lord left to test all those Israelites who had not experienced any of the wars in Canaan </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_2"><sup>2</sup>(he did this only to teach warfare to the descendants of the Israelites who had not had previous battle experience): </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_3"><sup>3</sup>the five rulers of the Philistines, all the Canaanites, the Sidonians, and the Hivites living in the Lebanon mountains from Mount Baal Hermon to Lebo Hamath. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_4"><sup>4</sup>They were left to test the Israelites to see whether they would obey the Lord’s commands, which he had given their ancestors through Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>The Israelites lived among the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_6"><sup>6</sup>They took their daughters in marriage and gave their own daughters to their sons, and served their gods. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Othniel </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord; they forgot the Lord their God and served the Baals and the Asherahs. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_8"><sup>8</sup>The anger of the Lord burned against Israel so that he sold them into the hands of Cushan-Rishathaim king of Aram Naharaim,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Northwest Mesopotamia">⚓</a> to whom the Israelites were subject for eight years. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_9"><sup>9</sup>But when they cried out to the Lord, he raised up for them a deliverer, Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother, who saved them. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_10"><sup>10</sup>The Spirit of the Lord came on him, so that he became Israel’s judge<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or leader">⚓</a> and went to war. The Lord gave Cushan-Rishathaim king of Aram into the hands of Othniel, who overpowered him. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_11"><sup>11</sup>So the land had peace for forty years, until Othniel son of Kenaz died. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ehud </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>Again the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and because they did this evil the Lord gave Eglon king of Moab power over Israel. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_13"><sup>13</sup>Getting the Ammonites and Amalekites to join him, Eglon came and attacked Israel, and they took possession of the City of Palms.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Jericho">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse cac_3_14"><sup>14</sup>The Israelites were subject to Eglon king of Moab for eighteen years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>Again the Israelites cried out to the Lord, and he gave them a deliverer—Ehud, a left-handed man, the son of Gera the Benjamite. The Israelites sent him with tribute to Eglon king of Moab. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_16"><sup>16</sup>Now Ehud had made a double-edged sword about a cubit<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 18 inches or about 45 centimeters">⚓</a> long, which he strapped to his right thigh under his clothing. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_17"><sup>17</sup>He presented the tribute to Eglon king of Moab, who was a very fat man. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_18"><sup>18</sup>After Ehud had presented the tribute, he sent on their way those who had carried it. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_19"><sup>19</sup>But on reaching the stone images near Gilgal he himself went back to Eglon and said, “Your Majesty, I have a secret message for you.” <br/> The king said to his attendants, “Leave us!” And they all left. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_3_20"> <sup>20</sup>Ehud then approached him while he was sitting alone in the upper room of his palace<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain; also in verse 24.">⚓</a> and said, “I have a message from God for you.” As the king rose from his seat, </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_21"><sup>21</sup>Ehud reached with his left hand, drew the sword from his right thigh and plunged it into the king’s belly. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_22"><sup>22</sup>Even the handle sank in after the blade, and his bowels discharged. Ehud did not pull the sword out, and the fat closed in over it. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_23"><sup>23</sup>Then Ehud went out to the porch<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> ; he shut the doors of the upper room behind him and locked them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_3_24"> <sup>24</sup>After he had gone, the servants came and found the doors of the upper room locked. They said, “He must be relieving himself in the inner room of the palace.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_25"><sup>25</sup>They waited to the point of embarrassment, but when he did not open the doors of the room, they took a key and unlocked them. There they saw their lord fallen to the floor, dead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_3_26"> <sup>26</sup>While they waited, Ehud got away. He passed by the stone images and escaped to Seirah. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_27"><sup>27</sup>When he arrived there, he blew a trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim, and the Israelites went down with him from the hills, with him leading them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_3_28"> <sup>28</sup>“Follow me,” he ordered, “for the Lord has given Moab, your enemy, into your hands.” So they followed him down and took possession of the fords of the Jordan that led to Moab; they allowed no one to cross over. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_29"><sup>29</sup>At that time they struck down about ten thousand Moabites, all vigorous and strong; not one escaped. </span>
<span class="verse cac_3_30"><sup>30</sup>That day Moab was made subject to Israel, and the land had peace for eighty years. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Shamgar </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_3_31"> <sup>31</sup>After Ehud came Shamgar son of Anath, who struck down six hundred Philistines with an oxgoad. He too saved Israel. <br/></span>
