---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Gideon </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and for seven years he gave them into the hands of the Midianites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_2"><sup>2</sup>Because the power of Midian was so oppressive, the Israelites prepared shelters for themselves in mountain clefts, caves and strongholds. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_3"><sup>3</sup>Whenever the Israelites planted their crops, the Midianites, Amalekites and other eastern peoples invaded the country. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_4"><sup>4</sup>They camped on the land and ruined the crops all the way to Gaza and did not spare a living thing for Israel, neither sheep nor cattle nor donkeys. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_5"><sup>5</sup>They came up with their livestock and their tents like swarms of locusts. It was impossible to count them or their camels; they invaded the land to ravage it. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_6"><sup>6</sup>Midian so impoverished the Israelites that they cried out to the Lord for help. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_7"> <sup>7</sup>When the Israelites cried out to the Lord because of Midian, </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_8"><sup>8</sup>he sent them a prophet, who said, “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: I brought you up out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_9"><sup>9</sup>I rescued you from the hand of the Egyptians. And I delivered you from the hand of all your oppressors; I drove them out before you and gave you their land. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_10"><sup>10</sup>I said to you, ‘I am the Lord your God; do not worship the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you live.’ But you have not listened to me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>The angel of the Lord came and sat down under the oak in Ophrah that belonged to Joash the Abiezrite, where his son Gideon was threshing wheat in a winepress to keep it from the Midianites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_12"><sup>12</sup>When the angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon, he said, “The Lord is with you, mighty warrior.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_13"> <sup>13</sup>“Pardon me, my lord,” Gideon replied, “but if the Lord is with us, why has all this happened to us? Where are all his wonders that our ancestors told us about when they said, ‘Did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt?’ But now the Lord has abandoned us and given us into the hand of Midian.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Lord turned to him and said, “Go in the strength you have and save Israel out of Midian’s hand. Am I not sending you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Pardon me, my lord,” Gideon replied, “but how can I save Israel? My clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my family.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>The Lord answered, “I will be with you, and you will strike down all the Midianites, leaving none alive.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>Gideon replied, “If now I have found favor in your eyes, give me a sign that it is really you talking to me. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_18"><sup>18</sup>Please do not go away until I come back and bring my offering and set it before you.” <br/> And the Lord said, “I will wait until you return.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_19"> <sup>19</sup>Gideon went inside, prepared a young goat, and from an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 36 pounds or about 16 kilograms">⚓</a> of flour he made bread without yeast. Putting the meat in a basket and its broth in a pot, he brought them out and offered them to him under the oak. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_20"> <sup>20</sup>The angel of God said to him, “Take the meat and the unleavened bread, place them on this rock, and pour out the broth.” And Gideon did so. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_21"><sup>21</sup>Then the angel of the Lord touched the meat and the unleavened bread with the tip of the staff that was in his hand. Fire flared from the rock, consuming the meat and the bread. And the angel of the Lord disappeared. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_22"><sup>22</sup>When Gideon realized that it was the angel of the Lord, he exclaimed, “Alas, Sovereign Lord! I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_23"> <sup>23</sup>But the Lord said to him, “Peace! Do not be afraid. You are not going to die.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_24"> <sup>24</sup>So Gideon built an altar to the Lord there and called it The Lord Is Peace. To this day it stands in Ophrah of the Abiezrites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_25"> <sup>25</sup>That same night the Lord said to him, “Take the second bull from your father’s herd, the one seven years old.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Take a full-grown, mature bull from your father’s herd">⚓</a> Tear down your father’s altar to Baal and cut down the Asherah pole<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, a wooden symbol of the goddess Asherah; also in verses 26, 28 and 30">⚓</a> beside it. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_26"><sup>26</sup>Then build a proper kind of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or build with layers of stone an">⚓</a> altar to the Lord your God on the top of this height. Using the wood of the Asherah pole that you cut down, offer the second<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or full-grown ; also in verse 28">⚓</a> bull as a burnt offering.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_27"> <sup>27</sup>So Gideon took ten of his servants and did as the Lord told him. But because he was afraid of his family and the townspeople, he did it at night rather than in the daytime. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_28"> <sup>28</sup>In the morning when the people of the town got up, there was Baal’s altar, demolished, with the Asherah pole beside it cut down and the second bull sacrificed on the newly built altar! <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_29"> <sup>29</sup>They asked each other, “Who did this?” <br/> When they carefully investigated, they were told, “Gideon son of Joash did it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_30"> <sup>30</sup>The people of the town demanded of Joash, “Bring out your son. He must die, because he has broken down Baal’s altar and cut down the Asherah pole beside it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_31"> <sup>31</sup>But Joash replied to the hostile crowd around him, “Are you going to plead Baal’s cause? Are you trying to save him? Whoever fights for him shall be put to death by morning! If Baal really is a god, he can defend himself when someone breaks down his altar.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_32"><sup>32</sup>So because Gideon broke down Baal’s altar, they gave him the name Jerub-Baal<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="probably means let Baal contend.">⚓</a> that day, saying, “Let Baal contend with him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_33"> <sup>33</sup>Now all the Midianites, Amalekites and other eastern peoples joined forces and crossed over the Jordan and camped in the Valley of Jezreel. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_34"><sup>34</sup>Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Gideon, and he blew a trumpet, summoning the Abiezrites to follow him. </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_35"><sup>35</sup>He sent messengers throughout Manasseh, calling them to arms, and also into Asher, Zebulun and Naphtali, so that they too went up to meet them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_36"> <sup>36</sup>Gideon said to God, “If you will save Israel by my hand as you have promised— </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_37"><sup>37</sup>look, I will place a wool fleece on the threshing floor. If there is dew only on the fleece and all the ground is dry, then I will know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you said.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_38"><sup>38</sup>And that is what happened. Gideon rose early the next day; he squeezed the fleece and wrung out the dew—a bowlful of water. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_6_39"> <sup>39</sup>Then Gideon said to God, “Do not be angry with me. Let me make just one more request. Allow me one more test with the fleece, but this time make the fleece dry and let the ground be covered with dew.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_6_40"><sup>40</sup>That night God did so. Only the fleece was dry; all the ground was covered with dew. <br/></span>
