---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Gideon Defeats the Midianites </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>Early in the morning, Jerub-Baal (that is, Gideon) and all his men camped at the spring of Harod. The camp of Midian was north of them in the valley near the hill of Moreh. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_2"><sup>2</sup>The Lord said to Gideon, “You have too many men. I cannot deliver Midian into their hands, or Israel would boast against me, ‘My own strength has saved me.’ </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_3"><sup>3</sup>Now announce to the army, ‘Anyone who trembles with fear may turn back and leave Mount Gilead.’ ” So twenty-two thousand men left, while ten thousand remained. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>But the Lord said to Gideon, “There are still too many men. Take them down to the water, and I will thin them out for you there. If I say, ‘This one shall go with you,’ he shall go; but if I say, ‘This one shall not go with you,’ he shall not go.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_5"> <sup>5</sup>So Gideon took the men down to the water. There the Lord told him, “Separate those who lap the water with their tongues as a dog laps from those who kneel down to drink.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_6"><sup>6</sup>Three hundred of them drank from cupped hands, lapping like dogs. All the rest got down on their knees to drink. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_7"> <sup>7</sup>The Lord said to Gideon, “With the three hundred men that lapped I will save you and give the Midianites into your hands. Let all the others go home.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_8"><sup>8</sup>So Gideon sent the rest of the Israelites home but kept the three hundred, who took over the provisions and trumpets of the others. <br/> Now the camp of Midian lay below him in the valley. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_9"><sup>9</sup>During that night the Lord said to Gideon, “Get up, go down against the camp, because I am going to give it into your hands. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_10"><sup>10</sup>If you are afraid to attack, go down to the camp with your servant Purah </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_11"><sup>11</sup>and listen to what they are saying. Afterward, you will be encouraged to attack the camp.” So he and Purah his servant went down to the outposts of the camp. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_12"><sup>12</sup>The Midianites, the Amalekites and all the other eastern peoples had settled in the valley, thick as locusts. Their camels could no more be counted than the sand on the seashore. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>Gideon arrived just as a man was telling a friend his dream. “I had a dream,” he was saying. “A round loaf of barley bread came tumbling into the Midianite camp. It struck the tent with such force that the tent overturned and collapsed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_14"> <sup>14</sup>His friend responded, “This can be nothing other than the sword of Gideon son of Joash, the Israelite. God has given the Midianites and the whole camp into his hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_15"> <sup>15</sup>When Gideon heard the dream and its interpretation, he bowed down and worshiped. He returned to the camp of Israel and called out, “Get up! The Lord has given the Midianite camp into your hands.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_16"><sup>16</sup>Dividing the three hundred men into three companies, he placed trumpets and empty jars in the hands of all of them, with torches inside. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Watch me,” he told them. “Follow my lead. When I get to the edge of the camp, do exactly as I do. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_18"><sup>18</sup>When I and all who are with me blow our trumpets, then from all around the camp blow yours and shout, ‘For the Lord and for Gideon.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_19"> <sup>19</sup>Gideon and the hundred men with him reached the edge of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch, just after they had changed the guard. They blew their trumpets and broke the jars that were in their hands. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_20"><sup>20</sup>The three companies blew the trumpets and smashed the jars. Grasping the torches in their left hands and holding in their right hands the trumpets they were to blow, they shouted, “A sword for the Lord and for Gideon!” </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_21"><sup>21</sup>While each man held his position around the camp, all the Midianites ran, crying out as they fled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_7_22"> <sup>22</sup>When the three hundred trumpets sounded, the Lord caused the men throughout the camp to turn on each other with their swords. The army fled to Beth Shittah toward Zererah as far as the border of Abel Meholah near Tabbath. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_23"><sup>23</sup>Israelites from Naphtali, Asher and all Manasseh were called out, and they pursued the Midianites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_24"><sup>24</sup>Gideon sent messengers throughout the hill country of Ephraim, saying, “Come down against the Midianites and seize the waters of the Jordan ahead of them as far as Beth Barah.” <br/> So all the men of Ephraim were called out and they seized the waters of the Jordan as far as Beth Barah. </span>
<span class="verse cac_7_25"><sup>25</sup>They also captured two of the Midianite leaders, Oreb and Zeeb. They killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and Zeeb at the winepress of Zeeb. They pursued the Midianites and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon, who was by the Jordan. <br/></span>
