---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>Tola </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>After the time of Abimelek, a man of Issachar named Tola son of Puah, the son of Dodo, rose to save Israel. He lived in Shamir, in the hill country of Ephraim. </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_2"><sup>2</sup>He led<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judged ; also in verse 3">⚓</a> Israel twenty-three years; then he died, and was buried in Shamir. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jair </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_10_3"> <sup>3</sup>He was followed by Jair of Gilead, who led Israel twenty-two years. </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_4"><sup>4</sup>He had thirty sons, who rode thirty donkeys. They controlled thirty towns in Gilead, which to this day are called Havvoth Jair.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or called the settlements of Jair">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse cac_10_5"><sup>5</sup>When Jair died, he was buried in Kamon. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jephthah </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_10_6"> <sup>6</sup>Again the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord. They served the Baals and the Ashtoreths, and the gods of Aram, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the Ammonites and the gods of the Philistines. And because the Israelites forsook the Lord and no longer served him, </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_7"><sup>7</sup>he became angry with them. He sold them into the hands of the Philistines and the Ammonites, </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_8"><sup>8</sup>who that year shattered and crushed them. For eighteen years they oppressed all the Israelites on the east side of the Jordan in Gilead, the land of the Amorites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_9"><sup>9</sup>The Ammonites also crossed the Jordan to fight against Judah, Benjamin and Ephraim; Israel was in great distress. </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_10"><sup>10</sup>Then the Israelites cried out to the Lord, “We have sinned against you, forsaking our God and serving the Baals.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_10_11"> <sup>11</sup>The Lord replied, “When the Egyptians, the Amorites, the Ammonites, the Philistines, </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_12"><sup>12</sup>the Sidonians, the Amalekites and the Maonites<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts Midianites">⚓</a> oppressed you and you cried to me for help, did I not save you from their hands? </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_13"><sup>13</sup>But you have forsaken me and served other gods, so I will no longer save you. </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_14"><sup>14</sup>Go and cry out to the gods you have chosen. Let them save you when you are in trouble!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_10_15"> <sup>15</sup>But the Israelites said to the Lord, “We have sinned. Do with us whatever you think best, but please rescue us now.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_16"><sup>16</sup>Then they got rid of the foreign gods among them and served the Lord. And he could bear Israel’s misery no longer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_10_17"> <sup>17</sup>When the Ammonites were called to arms and camped in Gilead, the Israelites assembled and camped at Mizpah. </span>
<span class="verse cac_10_18"><sup>18</sup>The leaders of the people of Gilead said to each other, “Whoever will take the lead in attacking the Ammonites will be head over all who live in Gilead.” <br/></span>
