---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1></div>
<span class="verse cac_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty warrior. His father was Gilead; his mother was a prostitute. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_2"><sup>2</sup>Gilead’s wife also bore him sons, and when they were grown up, they drove Jephthah away. “You are not going to get any inheritance in our family,” they said, “because you are the son of another woman.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_3"><sup>3</sup>So Jephthah fled from his brothers and settled in the land of Tob, where a gang of scoundrels gathered around him and followed him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>Some time later, when the Ammonites were fighting against Israel, </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_5"><sup>5</sup>the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah from the land of Tob. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_6"><sup>6</sup>“Come,” they said, “be our commander, so we can fight the Ammonites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>Jephthah said to them, “Didn’t you hate me and drive me from my father’s house? Why do you come to me now, when you’re in trouble?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_8"> <sup>8</sup>The elders of Gilead said to him, “Nevertheless, we are turning to you now; come with us to fight the Ammonites, and you will be head over all of us who live in Gilead.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>Jephthah answered, “Suppose you take me back to fight the Ammonites and the Lord gives them to me—will I really be your head?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_10"> <sup>10</sup>The elders of Gilead replied, “The Lord is our witness; we will certainly do as you say.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_11"><sup>11</sup>So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and commander over them. And he repeated all his words before the Lord in Mizpah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then Jephthah sent messengers to the Ammonite king with the question: “What do you have against me that you have attacked my country?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>The king of the Ammonites answered Jephthah’s messengers, “When Israel came up out of Egypt, they took away my land from the Arnon to the Jabbok, all the way to the Jordan. Now give it back peaceably.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>Jephthah sent back messengers to the Ammonite king, </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_15"><sup>15</sup>saying: <br/> “This is what Jephthah says: Israel did not take the land of Moab or the land of the Ammonites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_16"><sup>16</sup>But when they came up out of Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a> and on to Kadesh. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_17"><sup>17</sup>Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, ‘Give us permission to go through your country,’ but the king of Edom would not listen. They sent also to the king of Moab, and he refused. So Israel stayed at Kadesh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Next they traveled through the wilderness, skirted the lands of Edom and Moab, passed along the eastern side of the country of Moab, and camped on the other side of the Arnon. They did not enter the territory of Moab, for the Arnon was its border. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon, and said to him, ‘Let us pass through your country to our own place.’ </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_20"><sup>20</sup>Sihon, however, did not trust Israel<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or however, would not make an agreement for Israel">⚓</a> to pass through his territory. He mustered all his troops and encamped at Jahaz and fought with Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_21"> <sup>21</sup>“Then the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and his whole army into Israel’s hands, and they defeated them. Israel took over all the land of the Amorites who lived in that country, </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_22"><sup>22</sup>capturing all of it from the Arnon to the Jabbok and from the desert to the Jordan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_23"> <sup>23</sup>“Now since the Lord, the God of Israel, has driven the Amorites out before his people Israel, what right have you to take it over? </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_24"><sup>24</sup>Will you not take what your god Chemosh gives you? Likewise, whatever the Lord our God has given us, we will possess. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_25"><sup>25</sup>Are you any better than Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever quarrel with Israel or fight with them? </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_26"><sup>26</sup>For three hundred years Israel occupied Heshbon, Aroer, the surrounding settlements and all the towns along the Arnon. Why didn’t you retake them during that time? </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_27"><sup>27</sup>I have not wronged you, but you are doing me wrong by waging war against me. Let the Lord, the Judge, decide the dispute this day between the Israelites and the Ammonites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_28"><sup>28</sup>The king of Ammon, however, paid no attention to the message Jephthah sent him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_29"> <sup>29</sup>Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Jephthah. He crossed Gilead and Manasseh, passed through Mizpah of Gilead, and from there he advanced against the Ammonites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_30"><sup>30</sup>And Jephthah made a vow to the Lord: “If you give the Ammonites into my hands, </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_31"><sup>31</sup>whatever comes out of the door of my house to meet me when I return in triumph from the Ammonites will be the Lord’s, and I will sacrifice it as a burnt offering.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_32"> <sup>32</sup>Then Jephthah went over to fight the Ammonites, and the Lord gave them into his hands. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_33"><sup>33</sup>He devastated twenty towns from Aroer to the vicinity of Minnith, as far as Abel Keramim. Thus Israel subdued Ammon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_34"> <sup>34</sup>When Jephthah returned to his home in Mizpah, who should come out to meet him but his daughter, dancing to the sound of timbrels! She was an only child. Except for her he had neither son nor daughter. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_35"><sup>35</sup>When he saw her, he tore his clothes and cried, “Oh no, my daughter! You have brought me down and I am devastated. I have made a vow to the Lord that I cannot break.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_36"> <sup>36</sup>“My father,” she replied, “you have given your word to the Lord. Do to me just as you promised, now that the Lord has avenged you of your enemies, the Ammonites. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_37"><sup>37</sup>But grant me this one request,” she said. “Give me two months to roam the hills and weep with my friends, because I will never marry.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_11_38"> <sup>38</sup>“You may go,” he said. And he let her go for two months. She and her friends went into the hills and wept because she would never marry. </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_39"><sup>39</sup>After the two months, she returned to her father, and he did to her as he had vowed. And she was a virgin. <br/> From this comes the Israelite tradition </span>
<span class="verse cac_11_40"><sup>40</sup>that each year the young women of Israel go out for four days to commemorate the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite. <br/></span>
