---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>The Birth of Samson </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>Again the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord, so the Lord delivered them into the hands of the Philistines for forty years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_2"> <sup>2</sup>A certain man of Zorah, named Manoah, from the clan of the Danites, had a wife who was childless, unable to give birth. </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_3"><sup>3</sup>The angel of the Lord appeared to her and said, “You are barren and childless, but you are going to become pregnant and give birth to a son. </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_4"><sup>4</sup>Now see to it that you drink no wine or other fermented drink and that you do not eat anything unclean. </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_5"><sup>5</sup>You will become pregnant and have a son whose head is never to be touched by a razor because the boy is to be a Nazirite, dedicated to God from the womb. He will take the lead in delivering Israel from the hands of the Philistines.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then the woman went to her husband and told him, “A man of God came to me. He looked like an angel of God, very awesome. I didn’t ask him where he came from, and he didn’t tell me his name. </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_7"><sup>7</sup>But he said to me, ‘You will become pregnant and have a son. Now then, drink no wine or other fermented drink and do not eat anything unclean, because the boy will be a Nazirite of God from the womb until the day of his death.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Manoah prayed to the Lord: “Pardon your servant, Lord. I beg you to let the man of God you sent to us come again to teach us how to bring up the boy who is to be born.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_9"> <sup>9</sup>God heard Manoah, and the angel of God came again to the woman while she was out in the field; but her husband Manoah was not with her. </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_10"><sup>10</sup>The woman hurried to tell her husband, “He’s here! The man who appeared to me the other day!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_11"> <sup>11</sup>Manoah got up and followed his wife. When he came to the man, he said, “Are you the man who talked to my wife?” <br/> “I am,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_12"> <sup>12</sup>So Manoah asked him, “When your words are fulfilled, what is to be the rule that governs the boy’s life and work?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_13"> <sup>13</sup>The angel of the Lord answered, “Your wife must do all that I have told her. </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_14"><sup>14</sup>She must not eat anything that comes from the grapevine, nor drink any wine or other fermented drink nor eat anything unclean. She must do everything I have commanded her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_15"> <sup>15</sup>Manoah said to the angel of the Lord, “We would like you to stay until we prepare a young goat for you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_16"> <sup>16</sup>The angel of the Lord replied, “Even though you detain me, I will not eat any of your food. But if you prepare a burnt offering, offer it to the Lord.” (Manoah did not realize that it was the angel of the Lord.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then Manoah inquired of the angel of the Lord, “What is your name, so that we may honor you when your word comes true?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_18"> <sup>18</sup>He replied, “Why do you ask my name? It is beyond understanding.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or is wonderful">⚓</a> ” </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_19"><sup>19</sup>Then Manoah took a young goat, together with the grain offering, and sacrificed it on a rock to the Lord. And the Lord did an amazing thing while Manoah and his wife watched: </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_20"><sup>20</sup>As the flame blazed up from the altar toward heaven, the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame. Seeing this, Manoah and his wife fell with their faces to the ground. </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_21"><sup>21</sup>When the angel of the Lord did not show himself again to Manoah and his wife, Manoah realized that it was the angel of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_22"> <sup>22</sup>“We are doomed to die!” he said to his wife. “We have seen God!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_23"> <sup>23</sup>But his wife answered, “If the Lord had meant to kill us, he would not have accepted a burnt offering and grain offering from our hands, nor shown us all these things or now told us this.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_13_24"> <sup>24</sup>The woman gave birth to a boy and named him Samson. He grew and the Lord blessed him, </span>
<span class="verse cac_13_25"><sup>25</sup>and the Spirit of the Lord began to stir him while he was in Mahaneh Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol. <br/></span>
