---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>Samson’s Marriage </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>Samson went down to Timnah and saw there a young Philistine woman. </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_2"><sup>2</sup>When he returned, he said to his father and mother, “I have seen a Philistine woman in Timnah; now get her for me as my wife.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_3"> <sup>3</sup>His father and mother replied, “Isn’t there an acceptable woman among your relatives or among all our people? Must you go to the uncircumcised Philistines to get a wife?” <br/> But Samson said to his father, “Get her for me. She’s the right one for me.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_4"><sup>4</sup>(His parents did not know that this was from the Lord, who was seeking an occasion to confront the Philistines; for at that time they were ruling over Israel.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_5"> <sup>5</sup>Samson went down to Timnah together with his father and mother. As they approached the vineyards of Timnah, suddenly a young lion came roaring toward him. </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_6"><sup>6</sup>The Spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon him so that he tore the lion apart with his bare hands as he might have torn a young goat. But he told neither his father nor his mother what he had done. </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_7"><sup>7</sup>Then he went down and talked with the woman, and he liked her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_8"> <sup>8</sup>Some time later, when he went back to marry her, he turned aside to look at the lion’s carcass, and in it he saw a swarm of bees and some honey. </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_9"><sup>9</sup>He scooped out the honey with his hands and ate as he went along. When he rejoined his parents, he gave them some, and they too ate it. But he did not tell them that he had taken the honey from the lion’s carcass. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_10"> <sup>10</sup>Now his father went down to see the woman. And there Samson held a feast, as was customary for young men. </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_11"><sup>11</sup>When the people saw him, they chose thirty men to be his companions. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Let me tell you a riddle,” Samson said to them. “If you can give me the answer within the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty sets of clothes. </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_13"><sup>13</sup>If you can’t tell me the answer, you must give me thirty linen garments and thirty sets of clothes.” <br/> “Tell us your riddle,” they said. “Let’s hear it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_14"> <sup>14</sup>He replied, <br/>  “Out of the eater, something to eat; <br/>   out of the strong, something sweet.” <br/>For three days they could not give the answer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_15"> <sup>15</sup>On the fourth<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac; Hebrew seventh">⚓</a> day, they said to Samson’s wife, “Coax your husband into explaining the riddle for us, or we will burn you and your father’s household to death. Did you invite us here to steal our property?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then Samson’s wife threw herself on him, sobbing, “You hate me! You don’t really love me. You’ve given my people a riddle, but you haven’t told me the answer.” <br/> “I haven’t even explained it to my father or mother,” he replied, “so why should I explain it to you?” </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_17"><sup>17</sup>She cried the whole seven days of the feast. So on the seventh day he finally told her, because she continued to press him. She in turn explained the riddle to her people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_18"> <sup>18</sup>Before sunset on the seventh day the men of the town said to him, <br/>  “What is sweeter than honey? <br/>   What is stronger than a lion?” <br/> Samson said to them, <br/>  “If you had not plowed with my heifer, <br/>   you would not have solved my riddle.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_14_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then the Spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon him. He went down to Ashkelon, struck down thirty of their men, stripped them of everything and gave their clothes to those who had explained the riddle. Burning with anger, he returned to his father’s home. </span>
<span class="verse cac_14_20"><sup>20</sup>And Samson’s wife was given to one of his companions who had attended him at the feast. <br/></span>
