---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>Samson’s Vengeance on the Philistines </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>Later on, at the time of wheat harvest, Samson took a young goat and went to visit his wife. He said, “I’m going to my wife’s room.” But her father would not let him go in. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_2"> <sup>2</sup>“I was so sure you hated her,” he said, “that I gave her to your companion. Isn’t her younger sister more attractive? Take her instead.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_3"> <sup>3</sup>Samson said to them, “This time I have a right to get even with the Philistines; I will really harm them.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_15_4"><sup>4</sup>So he went out and caught three hundred foxes and tied them tail to tail in pairs. He then fastened a torch to every pair of tails, </span>
<span class="verse cac_15_5"><sup>5</sup>lit the torches and let the foxes loose in the standing grain of the Philistines. He burned up the shocks and standing grain, together with the vineyards and olive groves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_6"> <sup>6</sup>When the Philistines asked, “Who did this?” they were told, “Samson, the Timnite’s son-in-law, because his wife was given to his companion.” <br/> So the Philistines went up and burned her and her father to death. </span>
<span class="verse cac_15_7"><sup>7</sup>Samson said to them, “Since you’ve acted like this, I swear that I won’t stop until I get my revenge on you.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_15_8"><sup>8</sup>He attacked them viciously and slaughtered many of them. Then he went down and stayed in a cave in the rock of Etam. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Philistines went up and camped in Judah, spreading out near Lehi. </span>
<span class="verse cac_15_10"><sup>10</sup>The people of Judah asked, “Why have you come to fight us?” <br/> “We have come to take Samson prisoner,” they answered, “to do to him as he did to us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then three thousand men from Judah went down to the cave in the rock of Etam and said to Samson, “Don’t you realize that the Philistines are rulers over us? What have you done to us?” <br/> He answered, “I merely did to them what they did to me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_12"> <sup>12</sup>They said to him, “We’ve come to tie you up and hand you over to the Philistines.” <br/> Samson said, “Swear to me that you won’t kill me yourselves.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_13"> <sup>13</sup>“Agreed,” they answered. “We will only tie you up and hand you over to them. We will not kill you.” So they bound him with two new ropes and led him up from the rock. </span>
<span class="verse cac_15_14"><sup>14</sup>As he approached Lehi, the Philistines came toward him shouting. The Spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon him. The ropes on his arms became like charred flax, and the bindings dropped from his hands. </span>
<span class="verse cac_15_15"><sup>15</sup>Finding a fresh jawbone of a donkey, he grabbed it and struck down a thousand men. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then Samson said, <br/>  “With a donkey’s jawbone <br/>   I have made donkeys of them.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or made a heap or two ; the Hebrew for donkey sounds like the Hebrew for heap.">⚓</a><br/>  With a donkey’s jawbone <br/>   I have killed a thousand men.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_17"><sup>17</sup>When he finished speaking, he threw away the jawbone; and the place was called Ramath Lehi.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means jawbone hill.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_18"> <sup>18</sup>Because he was very thirsty, he cried out to the Lord, “You have given your servant this great victory. Must I now die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?” </span>
<span class="verse cac_15_19"><sup>19</sup>Then God opened up the hollow place in Lehi, and water came out of it. When Samson drank, his strength returned and he revived. So the spring was called En Hakkore,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means caller’s spring.">⚓</a> and it is still there in Lehi. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_15_20"> <sup>20</sup>Samson led<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judged">⚓</a> Israel for twenty years in the days of the Philistines. <br/></span>
