---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Samson and Delilah </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>One day Samson went to Gaza, where he saw a prostitute. He went in to spend the night with her. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_2"><sup>2</sup>The people of Gaza were told, “Samson is here!” So they surrounded the place and lay in wait for him all night at the city gate. They made no move during the night, saying, “At dawn we’ll kill him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_3"> <sup>3</sup>But Samson lay there only until the middle of the night. Then he got up and took hold of the doors of the city gate, together with the two posts, and tore them loose, bar and all. He lifted them to his shoulders and carried them to the top of the hill that faces Hebron. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_4"> <sup>4</sup>Some time later, he fell in love with a woman in the Valley of Sorek whose name was Delilah. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_5"><sup>5</sup>The rulers of the Philistines went to her and said, “See if you can lure him into showing you the secret of his great strength and how we can overpower him so we may tie him up and subdue him. Each one of us will give you eleven hundred shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 28 pounds or about 13 kilograms">⚓</a> of silver.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Delilah said to Samson, “Tell me the secret of your great strength and how you can be tied up and subdued.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_7"> <sup>7</sup>Samson answered her, “If anyone ties me with seven fresh bowstrings that have not been dried, I’ll become as weak as any other man.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then the rulers of the Philistines brought her seven fresh bowstrings that had not been dried, and she tied him with them. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_9"><sup>9</sup>With men hidden in the room, she called to him, “Samson, the Philistines are upon you!” But he snapped the bowstrings as easily as a piece of string snaps when it comes close to a flame. So the secret of his strength was not discovered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Delilah said to Samson, “You have made a fool of me; you lied to me. Come now, tell me how you can be tied.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_11"> <sup>11</sup>He said, “If anyone ties me securely with new ropes that have never been used, I’ll become as weak as any other man.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_12"> <sup>12</sup>So Delilah took new ropes and tied him with them. Then, with men hidden in the room, she called to him, “Samson, the Philistines are upon you!” But he snapped the ropes off his arms as if they were threads. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_13"> <sup>13</sup>Delilah then said to Samson, “All this time you have been making a fool of me and lying to me. Tell me how you can be tied.” <br/> He replied, “If you weave the seven braids of my head into the fabric on the loom and tighten it with the pin, I’ll become as weak as any other man.” So while he was sleeping, Delilah took the seven braids of his head, wove them into the fabric </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_14"><sup>14</sup>and<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew replied, “I can if you weave the seven braids of my head into the fabric on the loom.” 14So she">⚓</a> tightened it with the pin. <br/> Again she called to him, “Samson, the Philistines are upon you!” He awoke from his sleep and pulled up the pin and the loom, with the fabric. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then she said to him, “How can you say, ‘I love you,’ when you won’t confide in me? This is the third time you have made a fool of me and haven’t told me the secret of your great strength.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_16"><sup>16</sup>With such nagging she prodded him day after day until he was sick to death of it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_17"> <sup>17</sup>So he told her everything. “No razor has ever been used on my head,” he said, “because I have been a Nazirite dedicated to God from my mother’s womb. If my head were shaved, my strength would leave me, and I would become as weak as any other man.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_18"> <sup>18</sup>When Delilah saw that he had told her everything, she sent word to the rulers of the Philistines, “Come back once more; he has told me everything.” So the rulers of the Philistines returned with the silver in their hands. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_19"><sup>19</sup>After putting him to sleep on her lap, she called for someone to shave off the seven braids of his hair, and so began to subdue him.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts and he began to weaken">⚓</a> And his strength left him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then she called, “Samson, the Philistines are upon you!” <br/> He awoke from his sleep and thought, “I’ll go out as before and shake myself free.” But he did not know that the Lord had left him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then the Philistines seized him, gouged out his eyes and took him down to Gaza. Binding him with bronze shackles, they set him to grinding grain in the prison. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_22"><sup>22</sup>But the hair on his head began to grow again after it had been shaved. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Death of Samson </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_16_23"> <sup>23</sup>Now the rulers of the Philistines assembled to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god and to celebrate, saying, “Our god has delivered Samson, our enemy, into our hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_24"> <sup>24</sup>When the people saw him, they praised their god, saying, <br/>  “Our god has delivered our enemy <br/>   into our hands, <br/>  the one who laid waste our land <br/>   and multiplied our slain.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_25"> <sup>25</sup>While they were in high spirits, they shouted, “Bring out Samson to entertain us.” So they called Samson out of the prison, and he performed for them. <br/> When they stood him among the pillars, </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_26"><sup>26</sup>Samson said to the servant who held his hand, “Put me where I can feel the pillars that support the temple, so that I may lean against them.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_27"><sup>27</sup>Now the temple was crowded with men and women; all the rulers of the Philistines were there, and on the roof were about three thousand men and women watching Samson perform. </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_28"><sup>28</sup>Then Samson prayed to the Lord, “Sovereign Lord, remember me. Please, God, strengthen me just once more, and let me with one blow get revenge on the Philistines for my two eyes.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_29"><sup>29</sup>Then Samson reached toward the two central pillars on which the temple stood. Bracing himself against them, his right hand on the one and his left hand on the other, </span>
<span class="verse cac_16_30"><sup>30</sup>Samson said, “Let me die with the Philistines!” Then he pushed with all his might, and down came the temple on the rulers and all the people in it. Thus he killed many more when he died than while he lived. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_16_31"> <sup>31</sup>Then his brothers and his father’s whole family went down to get him. They brought him back and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the tomb of Manoah his father. He had led<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judged">⚓</a> Israel twenty years. <br/></span>
