---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>A Levite and His Concubine </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>In those days Israel had no king. <br/> Now a Levite who lived in a remote area in the hill country of Ephraim took a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_2"><sup>2</sup>But she was unfaithful to him. She left him and went back to her parents’ home in Bethlehem, Judah. After she had been there four months, </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_3"><sup>3</sup>her husband went to her to persuade her to return. He had with him his servant and two donkeys. She took him into her parents’ home, and when her father saw him, he gladly welcomed him. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_4"><sup>4</sup>His father-in-law, the woman’s father, prevailed on him to stay; so he remained with him three days, eating and drinking, and sleeping there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_5"> <sup>5</sup>On the fourth day they got up early and he prepared to leave, but the woman’s father said to his son-in-law, “Refresh yourself with something to eat; then you can go.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_6"><sup>6</sup>So the two of them sat down to eat and drink together. Afterward the woman’s father said, “Please stay tonight and enjoy yourself.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_7"><sup>7</sup>And when the man got up to go, his father-in-law persuaded him, so he stayed there that night. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_8"><sup>8</sup>On the morning of the fifth day, when he rose to go, the woman’s father said, “Refresh yourself. Wait till afternoon!” So the two of them ate together. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then when the man, with his concubine and his servant, got up to leave, his father-in-law, the woman’s father, said, “Now look, it’s almost evening. Spend the night here; the day is nearly over. Stay and enjoy yourself. Early tomorrow morning you can get up and be on your way home.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_10"><sup>10</sup>But, unwilling to stay another night, the man left and went toward Jebus (that is, Jerusalem), with his two saddled donkeys and his concubine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_11"> <sup>11</sup>When they were near Jebus and the day was almost gone, the servant said to his master, “Come, let’s stop at this city of the Jebusites and spend the night.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_12"> <sup>12</sup>His master replied, “No. We won’t go into any city whose people are not Israelites. We will go on to Gibeah.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_13"><sup>13</sup>He added, “Come, let’s try to reach Gibeah or Ramah and spend the night in one of those places.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_14"><sup>14</sup>So they went on, and the sun set as they neared Gibeah in Benjamin. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_15"><sup>15</sup>There they stopped to spend the night. They went and sat in the city square, but no one took them in for the night. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_16"> <sup>16</sup>That evening an old man from the hill country of Ephraim, who was living in Gibeah (the inhabitants of the place were Benjamites), came in from his work in the fields. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_17"><sup>17</sup>When he looked and saw the traveler in the city square, the old man asked, “Where are you going? Where did you come from?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_18"> <sup>18</sup>He answered, “We are on our way from Bethlehem in Judah to a remote area in the hill country of Ephraim where I live. I have been to Bethlehem in Judah and now I am going to the house of the Lord.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew, Vulgate, Syriac and Targum; Septuagint going home">⚓</a> No one has taken me in for the night. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_19"><sup>19</sup>We have both straw and fodder for our donkeys and bread and wine for ourselves your servants—me, the woman and the young man with us. We don’t need anything.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_20"> <sup>20</sup>“You are welcome at my house,” the old man said. “Let me supply whatever you need. Only don’t spend the night in the square.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_21"><sup>21</sup>So he took him into his house and fed his donkeys. After they had washed their feet, they had something to eat and drink. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_22"> <sup>22</sup>While they were enjoying themselves, some of the wicked men of the city surrounded the house. Pounding on the door, they shouted to the old man who owned the house, “Bring out the man who came to your house so we can have sex with him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_23"> <sup>23</sup>The owner of the house went outside and said to them, “No, my friends, don’t be so vile. Since this man is my guest, don’t do this outrageous thing. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_24"><sup>24</sup>Look, here is my virgin daughter, and his concubine. I will bring them out to you now, and you can use them and do to them whatever you wish. But as for this man, don’t do such an outrageous thing.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_25"> <sup>25</sup>But the men would not listen to him. So the man took his concubine and sent her outside to them, and they raped her and abused her throughout the night, and at dawn they let her go. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_26"><sup>26</sup>At daybreak the woman went back to the house where her master was staying, fell down at the door and lay there until daylight. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_27"> <sup>27</sup>When her master got up in the morning and opened the door of the house and stepped out to continue on his way, there lay his concubine, fallen in the doorway of the house, with her hands on the threshold. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_28"><sup>28</sup>He said to her, “Get up; let’s go.” But there was no answer. Then the man put her on his donkey and set out for home. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_19_29"> <sup>29</sup>When he reached home, he took a knife and cut up his concubine, limb by limb, into twelve parts and sent them into all the areas of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse cac_19_30"><sup>30</sup>Everyone who saw it was saying to one another, “Such a thing has never been seen or done, not since the day the Israelites came up out of Egypt. Just imagine! We must do something! So speak up!” <br/></span>
