---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Judges 
bookNumber: 7
audio: \Audio\NIV\cac\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>Wives for the Benjamites </h3></div>
<span class="verse cac_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>The men of Israel had taken an oath at Mizpah: “Not one of us will give his daughter in marriage to a Benjamite.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_2"> <sup>2</sup>The people went to Bethel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to the house of God">⚓</a> where they sat before God until evening, raising their voices and weeping bitterly. </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_3"><sup>3</sup>“Lord, God of Israel,” they cried, “why has this happened to Israel? Why should one tribe be missing from Israel today?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_4"> <sup>4</sup>Early the next day the people built an altar and presented burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the Israelites asked, “Who from all the tribes of Israel has failed to assemble before the Lord?” For they had taken a solemn oath that anyone who failed to assemble before the Lord at Mizpah was to be put to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now the Israelites grieved for the tribe of Benjamin, their fellow Israelites. “Today one tribe is cut off from Israel,” they said. </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_7"><sup>7</sup>“How can we provide wives for those who are left, since we have taken an oath by the Lord not to give them any of our daughters in marriage?” </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_8"><sup>8</sup>Then they asked, “Which one of the tribes of Israel failed to assemble before the Lord at Mizpah?” They discovered that no one from Jabesh Gilead had come to the camp for the assembly. </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_9"><sup>9</sup>For when they counted the people, they found that none of the people of Jabesh Gilead were there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_10"> <sup>10</sup>So the assembly sent twelve thousand fighting men with instructions to go to Jabesh Gilead and put to the sword those living there, including the women and children. </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_11"><sup>11</sup>“This is what you are to do,” they said. “Kill every male and every woman who is not a virgin.” </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_12"><sup>12</sup>They found among the people living in Jabesh Gilead four hundred young women who had never slept with a man, and they took them to the camp at Shiloh in Canaan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then the whole assembly sent an offer of peace to the Benjamites at the rock of Rimmon. </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_14"><sup>14</sup>So the Benjamites returned at that time and were given the women of Jabesh Gilead who had been spared. But there were not enough for all of them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_15"> <sup>15</sup>The people grieved for Benjamin, because the Lord had made a gap in the tribes of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_16"><sup>16</sup>And the elders of the assembly said, “With the women of Benjamin destroyed, how shall we provide wives for the men who are left? </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_17"><sup>17</sup>The Benjamite survivors must have heirs,” they said, “so that a tribe of Israel will not be wiped out. </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_18"><sup>18</sup>We can’t give them our daughters as wives, since we Israelites have taken this oath: ‘Cursed be anyone who gives a wife to a Benjamite.’ </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_19"><sup>19</sup>But look, there is the annual festival of the Lord in Shiloh, which lies north of Bethel, east of the road that goes from Bethel to Shechem, and south of Lebonah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_20"> <sup>20</sup>So they instructed the Benjamites, saying, “Go and hide in the vineyards </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_21"><sup>21</sup>and watch. When the young women of Shiloh come out to join in the dancing, rush from the vineyards and each of you seize one of them to be your wife. Then return to the land of Benjamin. </span>
<span class="verse cac_21_22"><sup>22</sup>When their fathers or brothers complain to us, we will say to them, ‘Do us the favor of helping them, because we did not get wives for them during the war. You will not be guilty of breaking your oath because you did not give your daughters to them.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_23"> <sup>23</sup>So that is what the Benjamites did. While the young women were dancing, each man caught one and carried her off to be his wife. Then they returned to their inheritance and rebuilt the towns and settled in them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_24"> <sup>24</sup>At that time the Israelites left that place and went home to their tribes and clans, each to his own inheritance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cac_21_25"> <sup>25</sup>In those days Israel had no king; everyone did as they saw fit. <br/></span>
