---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Elijah Taken Up to Heaven </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the Lord was about to take Elijah up to heaven in a whirlwind, Elijah and Elisha were on their way from Gilgal. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_2"><sup>2</sup>Elijah said to Elisha, “Stay here; the Lord has sent me to Bethel.” <br/> But Elisha said, “As surely as the Lord lives and as you live, I will not leave you.” So they went down to Bethel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_3"> <sup>3</sup>The company of the prophets at Bethel came out to Elisha and asked, “Do you know that the Lord is going to take your master from you today?” <br/> “Yes, I know,” Elisha replied, “so be quiet.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then Elijah said to him, “Stay here, Elisha; the Lord has sent me to Jericho.” <br/> And he replied, “As surely as the Lord lives and as you live, I will not leave you.” So they went to Jericho. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>The company of the prophets at Jericho went up to Elisha and asked him, “Do you know that the Lord is going to take your master from you today?” <br/> “Yes, I know,” he replied, “so be quiet.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then Elijah said to him, “Stay here; the Lord has sent me to the Jordan.” <br/> And he replied, “As surely as the Lord lives and as you live, I will not leave you.” So the two of them walked on. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>Fifty men from the company of the prophets went and stood at a distance, facing the place where Elijah and Elisha had stopped at the Jordan. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_8"><sup>8</sup>Elijah took his cloak, rolled it up and struck the water with it. The water divided to the right and to the left, and the two of them crossed over on dry ground. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_9"> <sup>9</sup>When they had crossed, Elijah said to Elisha, “Tell me, what can I do for you before I am taken from you?” <br/> “Let me inherit a double portion of your spirit,” Elisha replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_10"> <sup>10</sup>“You have asked a difficult thing,” Elijah said, “yet if you see me when I am taken from you, it will be yours—otherwise, it will not.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>As they were walking along and talking together, suddenly a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared and separated the two of them, and Elijah went up to heaven in a whirlwind. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_12"><sup>12</sup>Elisha saw this and cried out, “My father! My father! The chariots and horsemen of Israel!” And Elisha saw him no more. Then he took hold of his garment and tore it in two. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>Elisha then picked up Elijah’s cloak that had fallen from him and went back and stood on the bank of the Jordan. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_14"><sup>14</sup>He took the cloak that had fallen from Elijah and struck the water with it. “Where now is the Lord, the God of Elijah?” he asked. When he struck the water, it divided to the right and to the left, and he crossed over. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>The company of the prophets from Jericho, who were watching, said, “The spirit of Elijah is resting on Elisha.” And they went to meet him and bowed to the ground before him. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_16"><sup>16</sup>“Look,” they said, “we your servants have fifty able men. Let them go and look for your master. Perhaps the Spirit of the Lord has picked him up and set him down on some mountain or in some valley.” <br/> “No,” Elisha replied, “do not send them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>But they persisted until he was too embarrassed to refuse. So he said, “Send them.” And they sent fifty men, who searched for three days but did not find him. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_18"><sup>18</sup>When they returned to Elisha, who was staying in Jericho, he said to them, “Didn’t I tell you not to go?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Healing of the Water </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>The people of the city said to Elisha, “Look, our lord, this town is well situated, as you can see, but the water is bad and the land is unproductive.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>“Bring me a new bowl,” he said, “and put salt in it.” So they brought it to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then he went out to the spring and threw the salt into it, saying, “This is what the Lord says: ‘I have healed this water. Never again will it cause death or make the land unproductive.’ ” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_22"><sup>22</sup>And the water has remained pure to this day, according to the word Elisha had spoken. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Elisha Is Jeered </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_23"> <sup>23</sup>From there Elisha went up to Bethel. As he was walking along the road, some boys came out of the town and jeered at him. “Get out of here, baldy!” they said. “Get out of here, baldy!” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_24"><sup>24</sup>He turned around, looked at them and called down a curse on them in the name of the Lord. Then two bears came out of the woods and mauled forty-two of the boys. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_2_25"><sup>25</sup>And he went on to Mount Carmel and from there returned to Samaria. <br/></span>
