---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Moab Revolts </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Joram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jehoram, a variant of Joram ; also in verse 6">⚓</a> son of Ahab became king of Israel in Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned twelve years. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_2"><sup>2</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, but not as his father and mother had done. He got rid of the sacred stone of Baal that his father had made. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_3"><sup>3</sup>Nevertheless he clung to the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he had caused Israel to commit; he did not turn away from them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_4"> <sup>4</sup>Now Mesha king of Moab raised sheep, and he had to pay the king of Israel a tribute of a hundred thousand lambs and the wool of a hundred thousand rams. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_5"><sup>5</sup>But after Ahab died, the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_6"><sup>6</sup>So at that time King Joram set out from Samaria and mobilized all Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_7"><sup>7</sup>He also sent this message to Jehoshaphat king of Judah: “The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me to fight against Moab?” <br/> “I will go with you,” he replied. “I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_8"> <sup>8</sup>“By what route shall we attack?” he asked. <br/> “Through the Desert of Edom,” he answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_9"> <sup>9</sup>So the king of Israel set out with the king of Judah and the king of Edom. After a roundabout march of seven days, the army had no more water for themselves or for the animals with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>“What!” exclaimed the king of Israel. “Has the Lord called us three kings together only to deliver us into the hands of Moab?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>But Jehoshaphat asked, “Is there no prophet of the Lord here, through whom we may inquire of the Lord?” <br/> An officer of the king of Israel answered, “Elisha son of Shaphat is here. He used to pour water on the hands of Elijah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, he was Elijah’s personal servant.">⚓</a> ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>Jehoshaphat said, “The word of the Lord is with him.” So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_13"> <sup>13</sup>Elisha said to the king of Israel, “Why do you want to involve me? Go to the prophets of your father and the prophets of your mother.” <br/> “No,” the king of Israel answered, “because it was the Lord who called us three kings together to deliver us into the hands of Moab.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>Elisha said, “As surely as the Lord Almighty lives, whom I serve, if I did not have respect for the presence of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, I would not pay any attention to you. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_15"><sup>15</sup>But now bring me a harpist.” <br/> While the harpist was playing, the hand of the Lord came on Elisha </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_16"><sup>16</sup>and he said, “This is what the Lord says: I will fill this valley with pools of water. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_17"><sup>17</sup>For this is what the Lord says: You will see neither wind nor rain, yet this valley will be filled with water, and you, your cattle and your other animals will drink. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_18"><sup>18</sup>This is an easy thing in the eyes of the Lord; he will also deliver Moab into your hands. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_19"><sup>19</sup>You will overthrow every fortified city and every major town. You will cut down every good tree, stop up all the springs, and ruin every good field with stones.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_20"> <sup>20</sup>The next morning, about the time for offering the sacrifice, there it was—water flowing from the direction of Edom! And the land was filled with water. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_21"> <sup>21</sup>Now all the Moabites had heard that the kings had come to fight against them; so every man, young and old, who could bear arms was called up and stationed on the border. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_22"><sup>22</sup>When they got up early in the morning, the sun was shining on the water. To the Moabites across the way, the water looked red—like blood. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_23"><sup>23</sup>“That’s blood!” they said. “Those kings must have fought and slaughtered each other. Now to the plunder, Moab!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_24"> <sup>24</sup>But when the Moabites came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose up and fought them until they fled. And the Israelites invaded the land and slaughtered the Moabites. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_25"><sup>25</sup>They destroyed the towns, and each man threw a stone on every good field until it was covered. They stopped up all the springs and cut down every good tree. Only Kir Hareseth was left with its stones in place, but men armed with slings surrounded it and attacked it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_26"> <sup>26</sup>When the king of Moab saw that the battle had gone against him, he took with him seven hundred swordsmen to break through to the king of Edom, but they failed. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_3_27"><sup>27</sup>Then he took his firstborn son, who was to succeed him as king, and offered him as a sacrifice on the city wall. The fury against Israel was great; they withdrew and returned to their own land. <br/></span>
