---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The Shunammite’s Land Restored </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Elisha had said to the woman whose son he had restored to life, “Go away with your family and stay for a while wherever you can, because the Lord has decreed a famine in the land that will last seven years.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_2"><sup>2</sup>The woman proceeded to do as the man of God said. She and her family went away and stayed in the land of the Philistines seven years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_3"> <sup>3</sup>At the end of the seven years she came back from the land of the Philistines and went to appeal to the king for her house and land. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_4"><sup>4</sup>The king was talking to Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, and had said, “Tell me about all the great things Elisha has done.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_5"><sup>5</sup>Just as Gehazi was telling the king how Elisha had restored the dead to life, the woman whose son Elisha had brought back to life came to appeal to the king for her house and land. <br/> Gehazi said, “This is the woman, my lord the king, and this is her son whom Elisha restored to life.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_6"><sup>6</sup>The king asked the woman about it, and she told him. <br/> Then he assigned an official to her case and said to him, “Give back everything that belonged to her, including all the income from her land from the day she left the country until now.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Hazael Murders Ben-Hadad </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_7"> <sup>7</sup>Elisha went to Damascus, and Ben-Hadad king of Aram was ill. When the king was told, “The man of God has come all the way up here,” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_8"><sup>8</sup>he said to Hazael, “Take a gift with you and go to meet the man of God. Consult the Lord through him; ask him, ‘Will I recover from this illness?’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>Hazael went to meet Elisha, taking with him as a gift forty camel-loads of all the finest wares of Damascus. He went in and stood before him, and said, “Your son Ben-Hadad king of Aram has sent me to ask, ‘Will I recover from this illness?’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_10"> <sup>10</sup>Elisha answered, “Go and say to him, ‘You will certainly recover.’ Nevertheless,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew may also be read Go and say, ‘You will certainly not recover,’ for.">⚓</a> the Lord has revealed to me that he will in fact die.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_11"><sup>11</sup>He stared at him with a fixed gaze until Hazael was embarrassed. Then the man of God began to weep. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Why is my lord weeping?” asked Hazael. <br/> “Because I know the harm you will do to the Israelites,” he answered. “You will set fire to their fortified places, kill their young men with the sword, dash their little children to the ground, and rip open their pregnant women.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_13"> <sup>13</sup>Hazael said, “How could your servant, a mere dog, accomplish such a feat?” <br/> “The Lord has shown me that you will become king of Aram,” answered Elisha. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then Hazael left Elisha and returned to his master. When Ben-Hadad asked, “What did Elisha say to you?” Hazael replied, “He told me that you would certainly recover.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_15"><sup>15</sup>But the next day he took a thick cloth, soaked it in water and spread it over the king’s face, so that he died. Then Hazael succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoram King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_16"> <sup>16</sup>In the fifth year of Joram son of Ahab king of Israel, when Jehoshaphat was king of Judah, Jehoram son of Jehoshaphat began his reign as king of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_17"><sup>17</sup>He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_18"><sup>18</sup>He followed the ways of the kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done, for he married a daughter of Ahab. He did evil in the eyes of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_19"><sup>19</sup>Nevertheless, for the sake of his servant David, the Lord was not willing to destroy Judah. He had promised to maintain a lamp for David and his descendants forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_20"> <sup>20</sup>In the time of Jehoram, Edom rebelled against Judah and set up its own king. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_21"><sup>21</sup>So Jehoram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Joram, a variant of Jehoram ; also in verses 23 and 24">⚓</a> went to Zair with all his chariots. The Edomites surrounded him and his chariot commanders, but he rose up and broke through by night; his army, however, fled back home. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_22"><sup>22</sup>To this day Edom has been in rebellion against Judah. Libnah revolted at the same time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_23"> <sup>23</sup>As for the other events of Jehoram’s reign, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_24"><sup>24</sup>Jehoram rested with his ancestors and was buried with them in the City of David. And Ahaziah his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ahaziah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_25"> <sup>25</sup>In the twelfth year of Joram son of Ahab king of Israel, Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah began to reign. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_26"><sup>26</sup>Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem one year. His mother’s name was Athaliah, a granddaughter of Omri king of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_27"><sup>27</sup>He followed the ways of the house of Ahab and did evil in the eyes of the Lord, as the house of Ahab had done, for he was related by marriage to Ahab’s family. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_28"> <sup>28</sup>Ahaziah went with Joram son of Ahab to war against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth Gilead. The Arameans wounded Joram; </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_8_29"><sup>29</sup>so King Joram returned to Jezreel to recover from the wounds the Arameans had inflicted on him at Ramoth<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Ramah, a variant of Ramoth">⚓</a> in his battle with Hazael king of Aram. <br/> Then Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to Jezreel to see Joram son of Ahab, because he had been wounded. <br/></span>
