---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Joash Repairs the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the seventh year of Jehu, Joash<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jehoash, a variant of Joash ; also in verses 2, 4, 6, 7 and 18">⚓</a> became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem forty years. His mother’s name was Zibiah; she was from Beersheba. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_2"><sup>2</sup>Joash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord all the years Jehoiada the priest instructed him. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_3"><sup>3</sup>The high places, however, were not removed; the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_4"> <sup>4</sup>Joash said to the priests, “Collect all the money that is brought as sacred offerings to the temple of the Lord—the money collected in the census, the money received from personal vows and the money brought voluntarily to the temple. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_5"><sup>5</sup>Let every priest receive the money from one of the treasurers, then use it to repair whatever damage is found in the temple.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_6"> <sup>6</sup>But by the twenty-third year of King Joash the priests still had not repaired the temple. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_7"><sup>7</sup>Therefore King Joash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and asked them, “Why aren’t you repairing the damage done to the temple? Take no more money from your treasurers, but hand it over for repairing the temple.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_8"><sup>8</sup>The priests agreed that they would not collect any more money from the people and that they would not repair the temple themselves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_9"> <sup>9</sup>Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in its lid. He placed it beside the altar, on the right side as one enters the temple of the Lord. The priests who guarded the entrance put into the chest all the money that was brought to the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_10"><sup>10</sup>Whenever they saw that there was a large amount of money in the chest, the royal secretary and the high priest came, counted the money that had been brought into the temple of the Lord and put it into bags. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_11"><sup>11</sup>When the amount had been determined, they gave the money to the men appointed to supervise the work on the temple. With it they paid those who worked on the temple of the Lord—the carpenters and builders, </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_12"><sup>12</sup>the masons and stonecutters. They purchased timber and blocks of dressed stone for the repair of the temple of the Lord, and met all the other expenses of restoring the temple. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>The money brought into the temple was not spent for making silver basins, wick trimmers, sprinkling bowls, trumpets or any other articles of gold or silver for the temple of the Lord; </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_14"><sup>14</sup>it was paid to the workers, who used it to repair the temple. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_15"><sup>15</sup>They did not require an accounting from those to whom they gave the money to pay the workers, because they acted with complete honesty. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_16"><sup>16</sup>The money from the guilt offerings and sin offerings<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offerings">⚓</a> was not brought into the temple of the Lord; it belonged to the priests. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_17"> <sup>17</sup>About this time Hazael king of Aram went up and attacked Gath and captured it. Then he turned to attack Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_18"><sup>18</sup>But Joash king of Judah took all the sacred objects dedicated by his predecessors—Jehoshaphat, Jehoram and Ahaziah, the kings of Judah—and the gifts he himself had dedicated and all the gold found in the treasuries of the temple of the Lord and of the royal palace, and he sent them to Hazael king of Aram, who then withdrew from Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_19"> <sup>19</sup>As for the other events of the reign of Joash, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_20"><sup>20</sup>His officials conspired against him and assassinated him at Beth Millo, on the road down to Silla. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_12_21"><sup>21</sup>The officials who murdered him were Jozabad son of Shimeath and Jehozabad son of Shomer. He died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David. And Amaziah his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
