---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Jehoahaz King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the twenty-third year of Joash son of Ahaziah king of Judah, Jehoahaz son of Jehu became king of Israel in Samaria, and he reigned seventeen years. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_2"><sup>2</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord by following the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he had caused Israel to commit, and he did not turn away from them. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_3"><sup>3</sup>So the Lord’s anger burned against Israel, and for a long time he kept them under the power of Hazael king of Aram and Ben-Hadad his son. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then Jehoahaz sought the Lord’s favor, and the Lord listened to him, for he saw how severely the king of Aram was oppressing Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_5"><sup>5</sup>The Lord provided a deliverer for Israel, and they escaped from the power of Aram. So the Israelites lived in their own homes as they had before. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_6"><sup>6</sup>But they did not turn away from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, which he had caused Israel to commit; they continued in them. Also, the Asherah pole<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, a wooden symbol of the goddess Asherah; here and elsewhere in 2 Kings">⚓</a> remained standing in Samaria. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_7"> <sup>7</sup>Nothing had been left of the army of Jehoahaz except fifty horsemen, ten chariots and ten thousand foot soldiers, for the king of Aram had destroyed the rest and made them like the dust at threshing time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_8"> <sup>8</sup>As for the other events of the reign of Jehoahaz, all he did and his achievements, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_9"><sup>9</sup>Jehoahaz rested with his ancestors and was buried in Samaria. And Jehoash<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Joash, a variant of Jehoash ; also in verses 12-14 and 25">⚓</a> his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoash King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_10"> <sup>10</sup>In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash son of Jehoahaz became king of Israel in Samaria, and he reigned sixteen years. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_11"><sup>11</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord and did not turn away from any of the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he had caused Israel to commit; he continued in them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_12"> <sup>12</sup>As for the other events of the reign of Jehoash, all he did and his achievements, including his war against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_13"><sup>13</sup>Jehoash rested with his ancestors, and Jeroboam succeeded him on the throne. Jehoash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_14"> <sup>14</sup>Now Elisha had been suffering from the illness from which he died. Jehoash king of Israel went down to see him and wept over him. “My father! My father!” he cried. “The chariots and horsemen of Israel!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_15"> <sup>15</sup>Elisha said, “Get a bow and some arrows,” and he did so. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_16"><sup>16</sup>“Take the bow in your hands,” he said to the king of Israel. When he had taken it, Elisha put his hands on the king’s hands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Open the east window,” he said, and he opened it. “Shoot!” Elisha said, and he shot. “The Lord’s arrow of victory, the arrow of victory over Aram!” Elisha declared. “You will completely destroy the Arameans at Aphek.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then he said, “Take the arrows,” and the king took them. Elisha told him, “Strike the ground.” He struck it three times and stopped. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_19"><sup>19</sup>The man of God was angry with him and said, “You should have struck the ground five or six times; then you would have defeated Aram and completely destroyed it. But now you will defeat it only three times.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_20"> <sup>20</sup>Elisha died and was buried. <br/> Now Moabite raiders used to enter the country every spring. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_21"><sup>21</sup>Once while some Israelites were burying a man, suddenly they saw a band of raiders; so they threw the man’s body into Elisha’s tomb. When the body touched Elisha’s bones, the man came to life and stood up on his feet. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_22"> <sup>22</sup>Hazael king of Aram oppressed Israel throughout the reign of Jehoahaz. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_23"><sup>23</sup>But the Lord was gracious to them and had compassion and showed concern for them because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. To this day he has been unwilling to destroy them or banish them from his presence. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_24"> <sup>24</sup>Hazael king of Aram died, and Ben-Hadad his son succeeded him as king. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_13_25"><sup>25</sup>Then Jehoash son of Jehoahaz recaptured from Ben-Hadad son of Hazael the towns he had taken in battle from his father Jehoahaz. Three times Jehoash defeated him, and so he recovered the Israelite towns. <br/></span>
