---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>Azariah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Azariah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Also called Uzziah ; also in verses 6, 7, 8, 17, 23 and 27">⚓</a> son of Amaziah king of Judah began to reign. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_2"><sup>2</sup>He was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem fifty-two years. His mother’s name was Jekoliah; she was from Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_3"><sup>3</sup>He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father Amaziah had done. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_4"><sup>4</sup>The high places, however, were not removed; the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_5"> <sup>5</sup>The Lord afflicted the king with leprosy<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for leprosy was used for various diseases affecting the skin.">⚓</a> until the day he died, and he lived in a separate house.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in a house where he was relieved of responsibilities">⚓</a> Jotham the king’s son had charge of the palace and governed the people of the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_6"> <sup>6</sup>As for the other events of Azariah’s reign, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_7"><sup>7</sup>Azariah rested with his ancestors and was buried near them in the City of David. And Jotham his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Zechariah King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_8"> <sup>8</sup>In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah son of Jeroboam became king of Israel in Samaria, and he reigned six months. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_9"><sup>9</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, as his predecessors had done. He did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he had caused Israel to commit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_10"> <sup>10</sup>Shallum son of Jabesh conspired against Zechariah. He attacked him in front of the people,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts in Ibleam">⚓</a> assassinated him and succeeded him as king. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_11"><sup>11</sup>The other events of Zechariah’s reign are written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_12"><sup>12</sup>So the word of the Lord spoken to Jehu was fulfilled: “Your descendants will sit on the throne of Israel to the fourth generation.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Kings 10:30">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Shallum King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_13"> <sup>13</sup>Shallum son of Jabesh became king in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, and he reigned in Samaria one month. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_14"><sup>14</sup>Then Menahem son of Gadi went from Tirzah up to Samaria. He attacked Shallum son of Jabesh in Samaria, assassinated him and succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_15"> <sup>15</sup>The other events of Shallum’s reign, and the conspiracy he led, are written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_16"> <sup>16</sup>At that time Menahem, starting out from Tirzah, attacked Tiphsah and everyone in the city and its vicinity, because they refused to open their gates. He sacked Tiphsah and ripped open all the pregnant women. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Menahem King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_17"> <sup>17</sup>In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem son of Gadi became king of Israel, and he reigned in Samaria ten years. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_18"><sup>18</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord. During his entire reign he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he had caused Israel to commit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then Pul<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Also called Tiglath-Pileser">⚓</a> king of Assyria invaded the land, and Menahem gave him a thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 38 tons or about 34 metric tons">⚓</a> of silver to gain his support and strengthen his own hold on the kingdom. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_20"><sup>20</sup>Menahem exacted this money from Israel. Every wealthy person had to contribute fifty shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 1/4 pounds or about 575 grams">⚓</a> of silver to be given to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria withdrew and stayed in the land no longer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_21"> <sup>21</sup>As for the other events of Menahem’s reign, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_22"><sup>22</sup>Menahem rested with his ancestors. And Pekahiah his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Pekahiah King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_23"> <sup>23</sup>In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah son of Menahem became king of Israel in Samaria, and he reigned two years. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_24"><sup>24</sup>Pekahiah did evil in the eyes of the Lord. He did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he had caused Israel to commit. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_25"><sup>25</sup>One of his chief officers, Pekah son of Remaliah, conspired against him. Taking fifty men of Gilead with him, he assassinated Pekahiah, along with Argob and Arieh, in the citadel of the royal palace at Samaria. So Pekah killed Pekahiah and succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_26"> <sup>26</sup>The other events of Pekahiah’s reign, and all he did, are written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Pekah King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_27"> <sup>27</sup>In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah son of Remaliah became king of Israel in Samaria, and he reigned twenty years. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_28"><sup>28</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord. He did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he had caused Israel to commit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_29"> <sup>29</sup>In the time of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria came and took Ijon, Abel Beth Maakah, Janoah, Kedesh and Hazor. He took Gilead and Galilee, including all the land of Naphtali, and deported the people to Assyria. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_30"><sup>30</sup>Then Hoshea son of Elah conspired against Pekah son of Remaliah. He attacked and assassinated him, and then succeeded him as king in the twentieth year of Jotham son of Uzziah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_31"> <sup>31</sup>As for the other events of Pekah’s reign, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel? <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jotham King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_32"> <sup>32</sup>In the second year of Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel, Jotham son of Uzziah king of Judah began to reign. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_33"><sup>33</sup>He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem sixteen years. His mother’s name was Jerusha daughter of Zadok. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_34"><sup>34</sup>He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father Uzziah had done. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_35"><sup>35</sup>The high places, however, were not removed; the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. Jotham rebuilt the Upper Gate of the temple of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_36"> <sup>36</sup>As for the other events of Jotham’s reign, and what he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_37"><sup>37</sup>(In those days the Lord began to send Rezin king of Aram and Pekah son of Remaliah against Judah.) </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_15_38"><sup>38</sup>Jotham rested with his ancestors and was buried with them in the City of David, the city of his father. And Ahaz his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
