---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Ahaz King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the seventeenth year of Pekah son of Remaliah, Ahaz son of Jotham king of Judah began to reign. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_2"><sup>2</sup>Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem sixteen years. Unlike David his father, he did not do what was right in the eyes of the Lord his God. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_3"><sup>3</sup>He followed the ways of the kings of Israel and even sacrificed his son in the fire, engaging in the detestable practices of the nations the Lord had driven out before the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_4"><sup>4</sup>He offered sacrifices and burned incense at the high places, on the hilltops and under every spreading tree. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then Rezin king of Aram and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel marched up to fight against Jerusalem and besieged Ahaz, but they could not overpower him. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_6"><sup>6</sup>At that time, Rezin king of Aram recovered Elath for Aram by driving out the people of Judah. Edomites then moved into Elath and have lived there to this day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_7"> <sup>7</sup>Ahaz sent messengers to say to Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria, “I am your servant and vassal. Come up and save me out of the hand of the king of Aram and of the king of Israel, who are attacking me.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_8"><sup>8</sup>And Ahaz took the silver and gold found in the temple of the Lord and in the treasuries of the royal palace and sent it as a gift to the king of Assyria. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_9"><sup>9</sup>The king of Assyria complied by attacking Damascus and capturing it. He deported its inhabitants to Kir and put Rezin to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria. He saw an altar in Damascus and sent to Uriah the priest a sketch of the altar, with detailed plans for its construction. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_11"><sup>11</sup>So Uriah the priest built an altar in accordance with all the plans that King Ahaz had sent from Damascus and finished it before King Ahaz returned. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_12"><sup>12</sup>When the king came back from Damascus and saw the altar, he approached it and presented offerings<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and went up">⚓</a> on it. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_13"><sup>13</sup>He offered up his burnt offering and grain offering, poured out his drink offering, and splashed the blood of his fellowship offerings against the altar. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_14"><sup>14</sup>As for the bronze altar that stood before the Lord, he brought it from the front of the temple—from between the new altar and the temple of the Lord—and put it on the north side of the new altar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_15"> <sup>15</sup>King Ahaz then gave these orders to Uriah the priest: “On the large new altar, offer the morning burnt offering and the evening grain offering, the king’s burnt offering and his grain offering, and the burnt offering of all the people of the land, and their grain offering and their drink offering. Splash against this altar the blood of all the burnt offerings and sacrifices. But I will use the bronze altar for seeking guidance.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_16"><sup>16</sup>And Uriah the priest did just as King Ahaz had ordered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_17"> <sup>17</sup>King Ahaz cut off the side panels and removed the basins from the movable stands. He removed the Sea from the bronze bulls that supported it and set it on a stone base. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_18"><sup>18</sup>He took away the Sabbath canopy<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the dais of his throne (see Septuagint)">⚓</a> that had been built at the temple and removed the royal entryway outside the temple of the Lord, in deference to the king of Assyria. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_19"> <sup>19</sup>As for the other events of the reign of Ahaz, and what he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_16_20"><sup>20</sup>Ahaz rested with his ancestors and was buried with them in the City of David. And Hezekiah his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
