---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>Jerusalem’s Deliverance Foretold </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>When King Hezekiah heard this, he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and went into the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_2"><sup>2</sup>He sent Eliakim the palace administrator, Shebna the secretary and the leading priests, all wearing sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_3"><sup>3</sup>They told him, “This is what Hezekiah says: This day is a day of distress and rebuke and disgrace, as when children come to the moment of birth and there is no strength to deliver them. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_4"><sup>4</sup>It may be that the Lord your God will hear all the words of the field commander, whom his master, the king of Assyria, has sent to ridicule the living God, and that he will rebuke him for the words the Lord your God has heard. Therefore pray for the remnant that still survives.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_5"> <sup>5</sup>When King Hezekiah’s officials came to Isaiah, </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_6"><sup>6</sup>Isaiah said to them, “Tell your master, ‘This is what the Lord says: Do not be afraid of what you have heard—those words with which the underlings of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_7"><sup>7</sup>Listen! When he hears a certain report, I will make him want to return to his own country, and there I will have him cut down with the sword.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_8"> <sup>8</sup>When the field commander heard that the king of Assyria had left Lachish, he withdrew and found the king fighting against Libnah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_9"> <sup>9</sup>Now Sennacherib received a report that Tirhakah, the king of Cush,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the upper Nile region">⚓</a> was marching out to fight against him. So he again sent messengers to Hezekiah with this word: </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_10"><sup>10</sup>“Say to Hezekiah king of Judah: Do not let the god you depend on deceive you when he says, ‘Jerusalem will not be given into the hands of the king of Assyria.’ </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_11"><sup>11</sup>Surely you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the countries, destroying them completely. And will you be delivered? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_12"><sup>12</sup>Did the gods of the nations that were destroyed by my predecessors deliver them—the gods of Gozan, Harran, Rezeph and the people of Eden who were in Tel Assar? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_13"><sup>13</sup>Where is the king of Hamath or the king of Arpad? Where are the kings of Lair, Sepharvaim, Hena and Ivvah?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Hezekiah’s Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_14"> <sup>14</sup>Hezekiah received the letter from the messengers and read it. Then he went up to the temple of the Lord and spread it out before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_15"><sup>15</sup>And Hezekiah prayed to the Lord: “Lord, the God of Israel, enthroned between the cherubim, you alone are God over all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_16"><sup>16</sup>Give ear, Lord, and hear; open your eyes, Lord, and see; listen to the words Sennacherib has sent to ridicule the living God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_17"> <sup>17</sup>“It is true, Lord, that the Assyrian kings have laid waste these nations and their lands. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_18"><sup>18</sup>They have thrown their gods into the fire and destroyed them, for they were not gods but only wood and stone, fashioned by human hands. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_19"><sup>19</sup>Now, Lord our God, deliver us from his hand, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone, Lord, are God.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Isaiah Prophesies Sennacherib’s Fall </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then Isaiah son of Amoz sent a message to Hezekiah: “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: I have heard your prayer concerning Sennacherib king of Assyria. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_21"><sup>21</sup>This is the word that the Lord has spoken against him: <br/>  “ ‘Virgin Daughter Zion <br/>   despises you and mocks you. <br/>  Daughter Jerusalem <br/>   tosses her head as you flee. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_22">  <sup>22</sup>Who is it you have ridiculed and blasphemed? <br/>   Against whom have you raised your voice <br/>  and lifted your eyes in pride? <br/>   Against the Holy One of Israel! <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_23">  <sup>23</sup>By your messengers <br/>   you have ridiculed the Lord. <br/>  And you have said, <br/>   “With my many chariots <br/>  I have ascended the heights of the mountains, <br/>   the utmost heights of Lebanon. <br/>  I have cut down its tallest cedars, <br/>   the choicest of its junipers. <br/>  I have reached its remotest parts, <br/>   the finest of its forests. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_24">  <sup>24</sup>I have dug wells in foreign lands <br/>   and drunk the water there. <br/>  With the soles of my feet <br/>   I have dried up all the streams of Egypt.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_25">  <sup>25</sup>“ ‘Have you not heard? <br/>   Long ago I ordained it. <br/>  In days of old I planned it; <br/>   now I have brought it to pass, <br/>  that you have turned fortified cities <br/>   into piles of stone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_26">  <sup>26</sup>Their people, drained of power, <br/>   are dismayed and put to shame. <br/>  They are like plants in the field, <br/>   like tender green shoots, <br/>  like grass sprouting on the roof, <br/>   scorched before it grows up. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_27">  <sup>27</sup>“ ‘But I know where you are <br/>   and when you come and go <br/>   and how you rage against me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_28">  <sup>28</sup>Because you rage against me <br/>   and because your insolence has reached my ears, <br/>  I will put my hook in your nose <br/>   and my bit in your mouth, <br/>  and I will make you return <br/>   by the way you came.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_29"> <sup>29</sup>“This will be the sign for you, Hezekiah: <br/>  “This year you will eat what grows by itself, <br/>   and the second year what springs from that. <br/>  But in the third year sow and reap, <br/>   plant vineyards and eat their fruit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_30">  <sup>30</sup>Once more a remnant of the kingdom of Judah <br/>   will take root below and bear fruit above. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_31">  <sup>31</sup>For out of Jerusalem will come a remnant, <br/>   and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. <br/>“The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_32"> <sup>32</sup>“Therefore this is what the Lord says concerning the king of Assyria: <br/>  “ ‘He will not enter this city <br/>   or shoot an arrow here. <br/>  He will not come before it with shield <br/>   or build a siege ramp against it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_33">  <sup>33</sup>By the way that he came he will return; <br/>   he will not enter this city, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_34">  <sup>34</sup>I will defend this city and save it, <br/>   for my sake and for the sake of David my servant.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_35"> <sup>35</sup>That night the angel of the Lord went out and put to death a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the Assyrian camp. When the people got up the next morning—there were all the dead bodies! </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_36"><sup>36</sup>So Sennacherib king of Assyria broke camp and withdrew. He returned to Nineveh and stayed there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_19_37"> <sup>37</sup>One day, while he was worshiping in the temple of his god Nisrok, his sons Adrammelek and Sharezer killed him with the sword, and they escaped to the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
