---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>Hezekiah’s Illness </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>In those days Hezekiah became ill and was at the point of death. The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz went to him and said, “This is what the Lord says: Put your house in order, because you are going to die; you will not recover.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_2"> <sup>2</sup>Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_3"><sup>3</sup>“Remember, Lord, how I have walked before you faithfully and with wholehearted devotion and have done what is good in your eyes.” And Hezekiah wept bitterly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_4"> <sup>4</sup>Before Isaiah had left the middle court, the word of the Lord came to him: </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_5"><sup>5</sup>“Go back and tell Hezekiah, the ruler of my people, ‘This is what the Lord, the God of your father David, says: I have heard your prayer and seen your tears; I will heal you. On the third day from now you will go up to the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_6"><sup>6</sup>I will add fifteen years to your life. And I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria. I will defend this city for my sake and for the sake of my servant David.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then Isaiah said, “Prepare a poultice of figs.” They did so and applied it to the boil, and he recovered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_8"> <sup>8</sup>Hezekiah had asked Isaiah, “What will be the sign that the Lord will heal me and that I will go up to the temple of the Lord on the third day from now?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_9"> <sup>9</sup>Isaiah answered, “This is the Lord’s sign to you that the Lord will do what he has promised: Shall the shadow go forward ten steps, or shall it go back ten steps?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_10"> <sup>10</sup>“It is a simple matter for the shadow to go forward ten steps,” said Hezekiah. “Rather, have it go back ten steps.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then the prophet Isaiah called on the Lord, and the Lord made the shadow go back the ten steps it had gone down on the stairway of Ahaz. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Envoys From Babylon </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_12"> <sup>12</sup>At that time Marduk-Baladan son of Baladan king of Babylon sent Hezekiah letters and a gift, because he had heard of Hezekiah’s illness. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_13"><sup>13</sup>Hezekiah received the envoys and showed them all that was in his storehouses—the silver, the gold, the spices and the fine olive oil—his armory and everything found among his treasures. There was nothing in his palace or in all his kingdom that Hezekiah did not show them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then Isaiah the prophet went to King Hezekiah and asked, “What did those men say, and where did they come from?” <br/> “From a distant land,” Hezekiah replied. “They came from Babylon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_15"> <sup>15</sup>The prophet asked, “What did they see in your palace?” <br/> “They saw everything in my palace,” Hezekiah said. “There is nothing among my treasures that I did not show them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_17"><sup>17</sup>The time will surely come when everything in your palace, and all that your predecessors have stored up until this day, will be carried off to Babylon. Nothing will be left, says the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_18"><sup>18</sup>And some of your descendants, your own flesh and blood who will be born to you, will be taken away, and they will become eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_19"> <sup>19</sup>“The word of the Lord you have spoken is good,” Hezekiah replied. For he thought, “Will there not be peace and security in my lifetime?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_20"> <sup>20</sup>As for the other events of Hezekiah’s reign, all his achievements and how he made the pool and the tunnel by which he brought water into the city, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_20_21"><sup>21</sup>Hezekiah rested with his ancestors. And Manasseh his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
