---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>Manasseh King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem fifty-five years. His mother’s name was Hephzibah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_2"><sup>2</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, following the detestable practices of the nations the Lord had driven out before the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_3"><sup>3</sup>He rebuilt the high places his father Hezekiah had destroyed; he also erected altars to Baal and made an Asherah pole, as Ahab king of Israel had done. He bowed down to all the starry hosts and worshiped them. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_4"><sup>4</sup>He built altars in the temple of the Lord, of which the Lord had said, “In Jerusalem I will put my Name.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_5"><sup>5</sup>In the two courts of the temple of the Lord, he built altars to all the starry hosts. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_6"><sup>6</sup>He sacrificed his own son in the fire, practiced divination, sought omens, and consulted mediums and spiritists. He did much evil in the eyes of the Lord, arousing his anger. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_7"> <sup>7</sup>He took the carved Asherah pole he had made and put it in the temple, of which the Lord had said to David and to his son Solomon, “In this temple and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my Name forever. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_8"><sup>8</sup>I will not again make the feet of the Israelites wander from the land I gave their ancestors, if only they will be careful to do everything I commanded them and will keep the whole Law that my servant Moses gave them.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_9"><sup>9</sup>But the people did not listen. Manasseh led them astray, so that they did more evil than the nations the Lord had destroyed before the Israelites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_10"> <sup>10</sup>The Lord said through his servants the prophets: </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_11"><sup>11</sup>“Manasseh king of Judah has committed these detestable sins. He has done more evil than the Amorites who preceded him and has led Judah into sin with his idols. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_12"><sup>12</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: I am going to bring such disaster on Jerusalem and Judah that the ears of everyone who hears of it will tingle. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_13"><sup>13</sup>I will stretch out over Jerusalem the measuring line used against Samaria and the plumb line used against the house of Ahab. I will wipe out Jerusalem as one wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_14"><sup>14</sup>I will forsake the remnant of my inheritance and give them into the hands of enemies. They will be looted and plundered by all their enemies; </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_15"><sup>15</sup>they have done evil in my eyes and have aroused my anger from the day their ancestors came out of Egypt until this day.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_16"> <sup>16</sup>Moreover, Manasseh also shed so much innocent blood that he filled Jerusalem from end to end—besides the sin that he had caused Judah to commit, so that they did evil in the eyes of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_17"> <sup>17</sup>As for the other events of Manasseh’s reign, and all he did, including the sin he committed, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_18"><sup>18</sup>Manasseh rested with his ancestors and was buried in his palace garden, the garden of Uzza. And Amon his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Amon King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_19"> <sup>19</sup>Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem two years. His mother’s name was Meshullemeth daughter of Haruz; she was from Jotbah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_20"><sup>20</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, as his father Manasseh had done. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_21"><sup>21</sup>He followed completely the ways of his father, worshiping the idols his father had worshiped, and bowing down to them. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_22"><sup>22</sup>He forsook the Lord, the God of his ancestors, and did not walk in obedience to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_23"> <sup>23</sup>Amon’s officials conspired against him and assassinated the king in his palace. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_24"><sup>24</sup>Then the people of the land killed all who had plotted against King Amon, and they made Josiah his son king in his place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_25"> <sup>25</sup>As for the other events of Amon’s reign, and what he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_21_26"><sup>26</sup>He was buried in his tomb in the garden of Uzza. And Josiah his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
