---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>The Book of the Law Found </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem thirty-one years. His mother’s name was Jedidah daughter of Adaiah; she was from Bozkath. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_2"><sup>2</sup>He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord and followed completely the ways of his father David, not turning aside to the right or to the left. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_3"> <sup>3</sup>In the eighteenth year of his reign, King Josiah sent the secretary, Shaphan son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, to the temple of the Lord. He said: </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_4"><sup>4</sup>“Go up to Hilkiah the high priest and have him get ready the money that has been brought into the temple of the Lord, which the doorkeepers have collected from the people. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_5"><sup>5</sup>Have them entrust it to the men appointed to supervise the work on the temple. And have these men pay the workers who repair the temple of the Lord— </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_6"><sup>6</sup>the carpenters, the builders and the masons. Also have them purchase timber and dressed stone to repair the temple. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_7"><sup>7</sup>But they need not account for the money entrusted to them, because they are honest in their dealings.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_8"> <sup>8</sup>Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, “I have found the Book of the Law in the temple of the Lord.” He gave it to Shaphan, who read it. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_9"><sup>9</sup>Then Shaphan the secretary went to the king and reported to him: “Your officials have paid out the money that was in the temple of the Lord and have entrusted it to the workers and supervisors at the temple.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_10"><sup>10</sup>Then Shaphan the secretary informed the king, “Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.” And Shaphan read from it in the presence of the king. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_11"> <sup>11</sup>When the king heard the words of the Book of the Law, he tore his robes. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_12"><sup>12</sup>He gave these orders to Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam son of Shaphan, Akbor son of Micaiah, Shaphan the secretary and Asaiah the king’s attendant: </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_13"><sup>13</sup>“Go and inquire of the Lord for me and for the people and for all Judah about what is written in this book that has been found. Great is the Lord’s anger that burns against us because those who have gone before us have not obeyed the words of this book; they have not acted in accordance with all that is written there concerning us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_14"> <sup>14</sup>Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Akbor, Shaphan and Asaiah went to speak to the prophet Huldah, who was the wife of Shallum son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe. She lived in Jerusalem, in the New Quarter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_15"> <sup>15</sup>She said to them, “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: Tell the man who sent you to me, </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_16"><sup>16</sup>‘This is what the Lord says: I am going to bring disaster on this place and its people, according to everything written in the book the king of Judah has read. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_17"><sup>17</sup>Because they have forsaken me and burned incense to other gods and aroused my anger by all the idols their hands have made,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or by everything they have done">⚓</a> my anger will burn against this place and will not be quenched.’ </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_18"><sup>18</sup>Tell the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, ‘This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says concerning the words you heard: </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_19"><sup>19</sup>Because your heart was responsive and you humbled yourself before the Lord when you heard what I have spoken against this place and its people—that they would become a curse<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, their names would be used in cursing (see Jer. 29:22); or, others would see that they are cursed.">⚓</a> and be laid waste—and because you tore your robes and wept in my presence, I also have heard you, declares the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_22_20"><sup>20</sup>Therefore I will gather you to your ancestors, and you will be buried in peace. Your eyes will not see all the disaster I am going to bring on this place.’ ” <br/> So they took her answer back to the king. <br/></span>
