---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>Josiah Renews the Covenant </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the king called together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_2"><sup>2</sup>He went up to the temple of the Lord with the people of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the priests and the prophets—all the people from the least to the greatest. He read in their hearing all the words of the Book of the Covenant, which had been found in the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_3"><sup>3</sup>The king stood by the pillar and renewed the covenant in the presence of the Lord—to follow the Lord and keep his commands, statutes and decrees with all his heart and all his soul, thus confirming the words of the covenant written in this book. Then all the people pledged themselves to the covenant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_4"> <sup>4</sup>The king ordered Hilkiah the high priest, the priests next in rank and the doorkeepers to remove from the temple of the Lord all the articles made for Baal and Asherah and all the starry hosts. He burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron Valley and took the ashes to Bethel. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_5"><sup>5</sup>He did away with the idolatrous priests appointed by the kings of Judah to burn incense on the high places of the towns of Judah and on those around Jerusalem—those who burned incense to Baal, to the sun and moon, to the constellations and to all the starry hosts. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_6"><sup>6</sup>He took the Asherah pole from the temple of the Lord to the Kidron Valley outside Jerusalem and burned it there. He ground it to powder and scattered the dust over the graves of the common people. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_7"><sup>7</sup>He also tore down the quarters of the male shrine prostitutes that were in the temple of the Lord, the quarters where women did weaving for Asherah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_8"> <sup>8</sup>Josiah brought all the priests from the towns of Judah and desecrated the high places, from Geba to Beersheba, where the priests had burned incense. He broke down the gateway at the entrance of the Gate of Joshua, the city governor, which was on the left of the city gate. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_9"><sup>9</sup>Although the priests of the high places did not serve at the altar of the Lord in Jerusalem, they ate unleavened bread with their fellow priests. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_10"> <sup>10</sup>He desecrated Topheth, which was in the Valley of Ben Hinnom, so no one could use it to sacrifice their son or daughter in the fire to Molek. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_11"><sup>11</sup>He removed from the entrance to the temple of the Lord the horses that the kings of Judah had dedicated to the sun. They were in the court<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> near the room of an official named Nathan-Melek. Josiah then burned the chariots dedicated to the sun. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_12"> <sup>12</sup>He pulled down the altars the kings of Judah had erected on the roof near the upper room of Ahaz, and the altars Manasseh had built in the two courts of the temple of the Lord. He removed them from there, smashed them to pieces and threw the rubble into the Kidron Valley. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_13"><sup>13</sup>The king also desecrated the high places that were east of Jerusalem on the south of the Hill of Corruption—the ones Solomon king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the vile goddess of the Sidonians, for Chemosh the vile god of Moab, and for Molek the detestable god of the people of Ammon. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_14"><sup>14</sup>Josiah smashed the sacred stones and cut down the Asherah poles and covered the sites with human bones. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_15"> <sup>15</sup>Even the altar at Bethel, the high place made by Jeroboam son of Nebat, who had caused Israel to sin—even that altar and high place he demolished. He burned the high place and ground it to powder, and burned the Asherah pole also. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_16"><sup>16</sup>Then Josiah looked around, and when he saw the tombs that were there on the hillside, he had the bones removed from them and burned on the altar to defile it, in accordance with the word of the Lord proclaimed by the man of God who foretold these things. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_17"> <sup>17</sup>The king asked, “What is that tombstone I see?” <br/> The people of the city said, “It marks the tomb of the man of God who came from Judah and pronounced against the altar of Bethel the very things you have done to it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Leave it alone,” he said. “Don’t let anyone disturb his bones.” So they spared his bones and those of the prophet who had come from Samaria. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_19"> <sup>19</sup>Just as he had done at Bethel, Josiah removed all the shrines at the high places that the kings of Israel had built in the towns of Samaria and that had aroused the Lord’s anger. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_20"><sup>20</sup>Josiah slaughtered all the priests of those high places on the altars and burned human bones on them. Then he went back to Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_21"> <sup>21</sup>The king gave this order to all the people: “Celebrate the Passover to the Lord your God, as it is written in this Book of the Covenant.” </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_22"><sup>22</sup>Neither in the days of the judges who led Israel nor in the days of the kings of Israel and the kings of Judah had any such Passover been observed. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_23"><sup>23</sup>But in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, this Passover was celebrated to the Lord in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_24"> <sup>24</sup>Furthermore, Josiah got rid of the mediums and spiritists, the household gods, the idols and all the other detestable things seen in Judah and Jerusalem. This he did to fulfill the requirements of the law written in the book that Hilkiah the priest had discovered in the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_25"><sup>25</sup>Neither before nor after Josiah was there a king like him who turned to the Lord as he did—with all his heart and with all his soul and with all his strength, in accordance with all the Law of Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_26"> <sup>26</sup>Nevertheless, the Lord did not turn away from the heat of his fierce anger, which burned against Judah because of all that Manasseh had done to arouse his anger. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_27"><sup>27</sup>So the Lord said, “I will remove Judah also from my presence as I removed Israel, and I will reject Jerusalem, the city I chose, and this temple, about which I said, ‘My Name shall be there.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kings 8:29">⚓</a> ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_28"> <sup>28</sup>As for the other events of Josiah’s reign, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_29"> <sup>29</sup>While Josiah was king, Pharaoh Necho king of Egypt went up to the Euphrates River to help the king of Assyria. King Josiah marched out to meet him in battle, but Necho faced him and killed him at Megiddo. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_30"><sup>30</sup>Josiah’s servants brought his body in a chariot from Megiddo to Jerusalem and buried him in his own tomb. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz son of Josiah and anointed him and made him king in place of his father. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoahaz King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_31"> <sup>31</sup>Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. His mother’s name was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah; she was from Libnah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_32"><sup>32</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, just as his predecessors had done. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_33"><sup>33</sup>Pharaoh Necho put him in chains at Riblah in the land of Hamath so that he might not reign in Jerusalem, and he imposed on Judah a levy of a hundred talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 3/4 tons or about 3.4 metric tons">⚓</a> of silver and a talent<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 75 pounds or about 34 kilograms">⚓</a> of gold. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_34"><sup>34</sup>Pharaoh Necho made Eliakim son of Josiah king in place of his father Josiah and changed Eliakim’s name to Jehoiakim. But he took Jehoahaz and carried him off to Egypt, and there he died. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_35"><sup>35</sup>Jehoiakim paid Pharaoh Necho the silver and gold he demanded. In order to do so, he taxed the land and exacted the silver and gold from the people of the land according to their assessments. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_36"> <sup>36</sup>Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eleven years. His mother’s name was Zebidah daughter of Pedaiah; she was from Rumah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_23_37"><sup>37</sup>And he did evil in the eyes of the Lord, just as his predecessors had done. <br/></span>
