---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>Jehoiakim King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>During Jehoiakim’s reign, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon invaded the land, and Jehoiakim became his vassal for three years. But then he turned against Nebuchadnezzar and rebelled. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_2"><sup>2</sup>The Lord sent Babylonian,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldean">⚓</a> Aramean, Moabite and Ammonite raiders against him to destroy Judah, in accordance with the word of the Lord proclaimed by his servants the prophets. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_3"><sup>3</sup>Surely these things happened to Judah according to the Lord’s command, in order to remove them from his presence because of the sins of Manasseh and all he had done, </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_4"><sup>4</sup>including the shedding of innocent blood. For he had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, and the Lord was not willing to forgive. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_5"> <sup>5</sup>As for the other events of Jehoiakim’s reign, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_6"><sup>6</sup>Jehoiakim rested with his ancestors. And Jehoiachin his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_7"> <sup>7</sup>The king of Egypt did not march out from his own country again, because the king of Babylon had taken all his territory, from the Wadi of Egypt to the Euphrates River. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoiachin King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_8"> <sup>8</sup>Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. His mother’s name was Nehushta daughter of Elnathan; she was from Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_9"><sup>9</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father had done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_10"> <sup>10</sup>At that time the officers of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon advanced on Jerusalem and laid siege to it, </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_11"><sup>11</sup>and Nebuchadnezzar himself came up to the city while his officers were besieging it. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_12"><sup>12</sup>Jehoiachin king of Judah, his mother, his attendants, his nobles and his officials all surrendered to him. <br/> In the eighth year of the reign of the king of Babylon, he took Jehoiachin prisoner. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_13"><sup>13</sup>As the Lord had declared, Nebuchadnezzar removed the treasures from the temple of the Lord and from the royal palace, and cut up the gold articles that Solomon king of Israel had made for the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_14"><sup>14</sup>He carried all Jerusalem into exile: all the officers and fighting men, and all the skilled workers and artisans—a total of ten thousand. Only the poorest people of the land were left. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_15"> <sup>15</sup>Nebuchadnezzar took Jehoiachin captive to Babylon. He also took from Jerusalem to Babylon the king’s mother, his wives, his officials and the prominent people of the land. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_16"><sup>16</sup>The king of Babylon also deported to Babylon the entire force of seven thousand fighting men, strong and fit for war, and a thousand skilled workers and artisans. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_17"><sup>17</sup>He made Mattaniah, Jehoiachin’s uncle, king in his place and changed his name to Zedekiah. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Zedekiah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_18"> <sup>18</sup>Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eleven years. His mother’s name was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah; she was from Libnah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_19"><sup>19</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, just as Jehoiakim had done. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_24_20"><sup>20</sup>It was because of the Lord’s anger that all this happened to Jerusalem and Judah, and in the end he thrust them from his presence. <br/> Now Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. <br/></span>
