---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Kings 
bookNumber: 12
audio: \Audio\NIV\2vua\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1><h3>The Fall of Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_1"> <sup>1</sup>So in the ninth year of Zedekiah’s reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon marched against Jerusalem with his whole army. He encamped outside the city and built siege works all around it. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_2"><sup>2</sup>The city was kept under siege until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_3"> <sup>3</sup>By the ninth day of the fourth<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probable reading of the original Hebrew text (see Jer. 52:6); Masoretic Text does not have fourth .">⚓</a> month the famine in the city had become so severe that there was no food for the people to eat. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_4"><sup>4</sup>Then the city wall was broken through, and the whole army fled at night through the gate between the two walls near the king’s garden, though the Babylonians<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans ; also in verses 13, 25 and 26">⚓</a> were surrounding the city. They fled toward the Arabah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Jordan Valley">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_5"><sup>5</sup>but the Babylonian<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldean ; also in verses 10 and 24">⚓</a> army pursued the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho. All his soldiers were separated from him and scattered, </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_6"><sup>6</sup>and he was captured. <br/> He was taken to the king of Babylon at Riblah, where sentence was pronounced on him. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_7"><sup>7</sup>They killed the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes. Then they put out his eyes, bound him with bronze shackles and took him to Babylon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_8"> <sup>8</sup>On the seventh day of the fifth month, in the nineteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, Nebuzaradan commander of the imperial guard, an official of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_9"><sup>9</sup>He set fire to the temple of the Lord, the royal palace and all the houses of Jerusalem. Every important building he burned down. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_10"><sup>10</sup>The whole Babylonian army under the commander of the imperial guard broke down the walls around Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_11"><sup>11</sup>Nebuzaradan the commander of the guard carried into exile the people who remained in the city, along with the rest of the populace and those who had deserted to the king of Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_12"><sup>12</sup>But the commander left behind some of the poorest people of the land to work the vineyards and fields. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_13"> <sup>13</sup>The Babylonians broke up the bronze pillars, the movable stands and the bronze Sea that were at the temple of the Lord and they carried the bronze to Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_14"><sup>14</sup>They also took away the pots, shovels, wick trimmers, dishes and all the bronze articles used in the temple service. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_15"><sup>15</sup>The commander of the imperial guard took away the censers and sprinkling bowls—all that were made of pure gold or silver. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_16"> <sup>16</sup>The bronze from the two pillars, the Sea and the movable stands, which Solomon had made for the temple of the Lord, was more than could be weighed. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_17"><sup>17</sup>Each pillar was eighteen cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 27 feet or about 8.1 meters">⚓</a> high. The bronze capital on top of one pillar was three cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 4 1/2 feet or about 1.4 meters">⚓</a> high and was decorated with a network and pomegranates of bronze all around. The other pillar, with its network, was similar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_18"> <sup>18</sup>The commander of the guard took as prisoners Seraiah the chief priest, Zephaniah the priest next in rank and the three doorkeepers. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_19"><sup>19</sup>Of those still in the city, he took the officer in charge of the fighting men, and five royal advisers. He also took the secretary who was chief officer in charge of conscripting the people of the land and sixty of the conscripts who were found in the city. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_20"><sup>20</sup>Nebuzaradan the commander took them all and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_21"><sup>21</sup>There at Riblah, in the land of Hamath, the king had them executed. <br/> So Judah went into captivity, away from her land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_22"> <sup>22</sup>Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon appointed Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, to be over the people he had left behind in Judah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_23"><sup>23</sup>When all the army officers and their men heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah as governor, they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah—Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan son of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, Jaazaniah the son of the Maakathite, and their men. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_24"><sup>24</sup>Gedaliah took an oath to reassure them and their men. “Do not be afraid of the Babylonian officials,” he said. “Settle down in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it will go well with you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_25"> <sup>25</sup>In the seventh month, however, Ishmael son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, who was of royal blood, came with ten men and assassinated Gedaliah and also the men of Judah and the Babylonians who were with him at Mizpah. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_26"><sup>26</sup>At this, all the people from the least to the greatest, together with the army officers, fled to Egypt for fear of the Babylonians. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoiachin Released </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_27"> <sup>27</sup>In the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the year Awel-Marduk became king of Babylon, he released Jehoiachin king of Judah from prison. He did this on the twenty-seventh day of the twelfth month. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_28"><sup>28</sup>He spoke kindly to him and gave him a seat of honor higher than those of the other kings who were with him in Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_29"><sup>29</sup>So Jehoiachin put aside his prison clothes and for the rest of his life ate regularly at the king’s table. </span>
<span class="verse 2vua_25_30"><sup>30</sup>Day by day the king gave Jehoiachin a regular allowance as long as he lived. <br/></span>
