---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>The Israelites Oppressed </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>These are the names of the sons of Israel who went to Egypt with Jacob, each with his family: </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_2"><sup>2</sup>Reuben, Simeon, Levi and Judah; </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_3"><sup>3</sup>Issachar, Zebulun and Benjamin; </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_4"><sup>4</sup>Dan and Naphtali; Gad and Asher. </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_5"><sup>5</sup>The descendants of Jacob numbered seventy<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text (see also Gen. 46:27); Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint (see also Acts 7:14 and note at Gen. 46:27) seventy-five">⚓</a> in all; Joseph was already in Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now Joseph and all his brothers and all that generation died, </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_7"><sup>7</sup>but the Israelites were exceedingly fruitful; they multiplied greatly, increased in numbers and became so numerous that the land was filled with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then a new king, to whom Joseph meant nothing, came to power in Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_9"><sup>9</sup>“Look,” he said to his people, “the Israelites have become far too numerous for us. </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_10"><sup>10</sup>Come, we must deal shrewdly with them or they will become even more numerous and, if war breaks out, will join our enemies, fight against us and leave the country.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>So they put slave masters over them to oppress them with forced labor, and they built Pithom and Rameses as store cities for Pharaoh. </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_12"><sup>12</sup>But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied and spread; so the Egyptians came to dread the Israelites </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_13"><sup>13</sup>and worked them ruthlessly. </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_14"><sup>14</sup>They made their lives bitter with harsh labor in brick and mortar and with all kinds of work in the fields; in all their harsh labor the Egyptians worked them ruthlessly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>The king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, whose names were Shiphrah and Puah, </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_16"><sup>16</sup>“When you are helping the Hebrew women during childbirth on the delivery stool, if you see that the baby is a boy, kill him; but if it is a girl, let her live.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_17"><sup>17</sup>The midwives, however, feared God and did not do what the king of Egypt had told them to do; they let the boys live. </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_18"><sup>18</sup>Then the king of Egypt summoned the midwives and asked them, “Why have you done this? Why have you let the boys live?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>The midwives answered Pharaoh, “Hebrew women are not like Egyptian women; they are vigorous and give birth before the midwives arrive.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_1_20"> <sup>20</sup>So God was kind to the midwives and the people increased and became even more numerous. </span>
<span class="verse xu_1_21"><sup>21</sup>And because the midwives feared God, he gave them families of their own. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then Pharaoh gave this order to all his people: “Every Hebrew boy that is born you must throw into the Nile, but let every girl live.” <br/></span>
