---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>The Birth of Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now a man of the tribe of Levi married a Levite woman, </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_2"><sup>2</sup>and she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. When she saw that he was a fine child, she hid him for three months. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_3"><sup>3</sup>But when she could hide him no longer, she got a papyrus basket<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew can also mean ark , as in Gen. 6:14.">⚓</a> for him and coated it with tar and pitch. Then she placed the child in it and put it among the reeds along the bank of the Nile. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_4"><sup>4</sup>His sister stood at a distance to see what would happen to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then Pharaoh’s daughter went down to the Nile to bathe, and her attendants were walking along the riverbank. She saw the basket among the reeds and sent her female slave to get it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_6"><sup>6</sup>She opened it and saw the baby. He was crying, and she felt sorry for him. “This is one of the Hebrew babies,” she said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then his sister asked Pharaoh’s daughter, “Shall I go and get one of the Hebrew women to nurse the baby for you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Yes, go,” she answered. So the girl went and got the baby’s mother. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_9"><sup>9</sup>Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “Take this baby and nurse him for me, and I will pay you.” So the woman took the baby and nursed him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_10"><sup>10</sup>When the child grew older, she took him to Pharaoh’s daughter and he became her son. She named him Moses,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for draw out.">⚓</a> saying, “I drew him out of the water.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Moses Flees to Midian </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>One day, after Moses had grown up, he went out to where his own people were and watched them at their hard labor. He saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his own people. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_12"><sup>12</sup>Looking this way and that and seeing no one, he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_13"><sup>13</sup>The next day he went out and saw two Hebrews fighting. He asked the one in the wrong, “Why are you hitting your fellow Hebrew?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>The man said, “Who made you ruler and judge over us? Are you thinking of killing me as you killed the Egyptian?” Then Moses was afraid and thought, “What I did must have become known.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>When Pharaoh heard of this, he tried to kill Moses, but Moses fled from Pharaoh and went to live in Midian, where he sat down by a well. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_16"><sup>16</sup>Now a priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came to draw water and fill the troughs to water their father’s flock. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_17"><sup>17</sup>Some shepherds came along and drove them away, but Moses got up and came to their rescue and watered their flock. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_18"> <sup>18</sup>When the girls returned to Reuel their father, he asked them, “Why have you returned so early today?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>They answered, “An Egyptian rescued us from the shepherds. He even drew water for us and watered the flock.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>“And where is he?” Reuel asked his daughters. “Why did you leave him? Invite him to have something to eat.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_21"> <sup>21</sup>Moses agreed to stay with the man, who gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses in marriage. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_22"><sup>22</sup>Zipporah gave birth to a son, and Moses named him Gershom,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for a foreigner there.">⚓</a> saying, “I have become a foreigner in a foreign land.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_2_23"> <sup>23</sup>During that long period, the king of Egypt died. The Israelites groaned in their slavery and cried out, and their cry for help because of their slavery went up to God. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_24"><sup>24</sup>God heard their groaning and he remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac and with Jacob. </span>
<span class="verse xu_2_25"><sup>25</sup>So God looked on the Israelites and was concerned about them. <br/></span>
