---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Signs for Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Moses answered, “What if they do not believe me or listen to me and say, ‘The Lord did not appear to you’?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then the Lord said to him, “What is that in your hand?” <br/> “A staff,” he replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_3"> <sup>3</sup>The Lord said, “Throw it on the ground.” <br/> Moses threw it on the ground and it became a snake, and he ran from it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_4"><sup>4</sup>Then the Lord said to him, “Reach out your hand and take it by the tail.” So Moses reached out and took hold of the snake and it turned back into a staff in his hand. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_5"><sup>5</sup>“This,” said the Lord, “is so that they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers—the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob—has appeared to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then the Lord said, “Put your hand inside your cloak.” So Moses put his hand into his cloak, and when he took it out, the skin was leprous<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word for leprous was used for various diseases affecting the skin.">⚓</a> —it had become as white as snow. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Now put it back into your cloak,” he said. So Moses put his hand back into his cloak, and when he took it out, it was restored, like the rest of his flesh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then the Lord said, “If they do not believe you or pay attention to the first sign, they may believe the second. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_9"><sup>9</sup>But if they do not believe these two signs or listen to you, take some water from the Nile and pour it on the dry ground. The water you take from the river will become blood on the ground.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>Moses said to the Lord, “Pardon your servant, Lord. I have never been eloquent, neither in the past nor since you have spoken to your servant. I am slow of speech and tongue.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>The Lord said to him, “Who gave human beings their mouths? Who makes them deaf or mute? Who gives them sight or makes them blind? Is it not I, the Lord? </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_12"><sup>12</sup>Now go; I will help you speak and will teach you what to say.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>But Moses said, “Pardon your servant, Lord. Please send someone else.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then the Lord’s anger burned against Moses and he said, “What about your brother, Aaron the Levite? I know he can speak well. He is already on his way to meet you, and he will be glad to see you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_15"><sup>15</sup>You shall speak to him and put words in his mouth; I will help both of you speak and will teach you what to do. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_16"><sup>16</sup>He will speak to the people for you, and it will be as if he were your mouth and as if you were God to him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_17"><sup>17</sup>But take this staff in your hand so you can perform the signs with it.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Moses Returns to Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_4_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Moses went back to Jethro his father-in-law and said to him, “Let me return to my own people in Egypt to see if any of them are still alive.” <br/> Jethro said, “Go, and I wish you well.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>Now the Lord had said to Moses in Midian, “Go back to Egypt, for all those who wanted to kill you are dead.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_20"><sup>20</sup>So Moses took his wife and sons, put them on a donkey and started back to Egypt. And he took the staff of God in his hand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “When you return to Egypt, see that you perform before Pharaoh all the wonders I have given you the power to do. But I will harden his heart so that he will not let the people go. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_22"><sup>22</sup>Then say to Pharaoh, ‘This is what the Lord says: Israel is my firstborn son, </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_23"><sup>23</sup>and I told you, “Let my son go, so he may worship me.” But you refused to let him go; so I will kill your firstborn son.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_24"> <sup>24</sup>At a lodging place on the way, the Lord met Moses<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew him">⚓</a> and was about to kill him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_25"><sup>25</sup>But Zipporah took a flint knife, cut off her son’s foreskin and touched Moses’ feet with it.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this clause is uncertain.">⚓</a> “Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me,” she said. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_26"><sup>26</sup>So the Lord let him alone. (At that time she said “bridegroom of blood,” referring to circumcision.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_27"> <sup>27</sup>The Lord said to Aaron, “Go into the wilderness to meet Moses.” So he met Moses at the mountain of God and kissed him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_28"><sup>28</sup>Then Moses told Aaron everything the Lord had sent him to say, and also about all the signs he had commanded him to perform. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_4_29"> <sup>29</sup>Moses and Aaron brought together all the elders of the Israelites, </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_30"><sup>30</sup>and Aaron told them everything the Lord had said to Moses. He also performed the signs before the people, </span>
<span class="verse xu_4_31"><sup>31</sup>and they believed. And when they heard that the Lord was concerned about them and had seen their misery, they bowed down and worshiped. <br/></span>
