---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Bricks Without Straw </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Afterward Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said, “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: ‘Let my people go, so that they may hold a festival to me in the wilderness.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_2"> <sup>2</sup>Pharaoh said, “Who is the Lord, that I should obey him and let Israel go? I do not know the Lord and I will not let Israel go.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then they said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Now let us take a three-day journey into the wilderness to offer sacrifices to the Lord our God, or he may strike us with plagues or with the sword.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_4"> <sup>4</sup>But the king of Egypt said, “Moses and Aaron, why are you taking the people away from their labor? Get back to your work!” </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_5"><sup>5</sup>Then Pharaoh said, “Look, the people of the land are now numerous, and you are stopping them from working.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>That same day Pharaoh gave this order to the slave drivers and overseers in charge of the people: </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_7"><sup>7</sup>“You are no longer to supply the people with straw for making bricks; let them go and gather their own straw. </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_8"><sup>8</sup>But require them to make the same number of bricks as before; don’t reduce the quota. They are lazy; that is why they are crying out, ‘Let us go and sacrifice to our God.’ </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_9"><sup>9</sup>Make the work harder for the people so that they keep working and pay no attention to lies.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then the slave drivers and the overseers went out and said to the people, “This is what Pharaoh says: ‘I will not give you any more straw. </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_11"><sup>11</sup>Go and get your own straw wherever you can find it, but your work will not be reduced at all.’ ” </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_12"><sup>12</sup>So the people scattered all over Egypt to gather stubble to use for straw. </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_13"><sup>13</sup>The slave drivers kept pressing them, saying, “Complete the work required of you for each day, just as when you had straw.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_14"><sup>14</sup>And Pharaoh’s slave drivers beat the Israelite overseers they had appointed, demanding, “Why haven’t you met your quota of bricks yesterday or today, as before?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the Israelite overseers went and appealed to Pharaoh: “Why have you treated your servants this way? </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_16"><sup>16</sup>Your servants are given no straw, yet we are told, ‘Make bricks!’ Your servants are being beaten, but the fault is with your own people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_17"> <sup>17</sup>Pharaoh said, “Lazy, that’s what you are—lazy! That is why you keep saying, ‘Let us go and sacrifice to the Lord.’ </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_18"><sup>18</sup>Now get to work. You will not be given any straw, yet you must produce your full quota of bricks.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_19"> <sup>19</sup>The Israelite overseers realized they were in trouble when they were told, “You are not to reduce the number of bricks required of you for each day.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_20"><sup>20</sup>When they left Pharaoh, they found Moses and Aaron waiting to meet them, </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_21"><sup>21</sup>and they said, “May the Lord look on you and judge you! You have made us obnoxious to Pharaoh and his officials and have put a sword in their hand to kill us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_5_22"> <sup>22</sup>Moses returned to the Lord and said, “Why, Lord, why have you brought trouble on this people? Is this why you sent me? </span>
<span class="verse xu_5_23"><sup>23</sup>Ever since I went to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has brought trouble on this people, and you have not rescued your people at all.” <br/></span>
