---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>God Promises Deliverance </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh: Because of my mighty hand he will let them go; because of my mighty hand he will drive them out of his country.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_2"> <sup>2</sup>God also said to Moses, “I am the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_6_3"><sup>3</sup>I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac and to Jacob as God Almighty,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew El-Shaddai">⚓</a> but by my name the Lord<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See note at 3:15.">⚓</a> I did not make myself fully known to them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_6_4"><sup>4</sup>I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, where they resided as foreigners. </span>
<span class="verse xu_6_5"><sup>5</sup>Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I have remembered my covenant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Therefore, say to the Israelites: ‘I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. </span>
<span class="verse xu_6_7"><sup>7</sup>I will take you as my own people, and I will be your God. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. </span>
<span class="verse xu_6_8"><sup>8</sup>And I will bring you to the land I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to Isaac and to Jacob. I will give it to you as a possession. I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>Moses reported this to the Israelites, but they did not listen to him because of their discouragement and harsh labor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse xu_6_11"><sup>11</sup>“Go, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt to let the Israelites go out of his country.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>But Moses said to the Lord, “If the Israelites will not listen to me, why would Pharaoh listen to me, since I speak with faltering lips<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew I am uncircumcised of lips ; also in verse 30">⚓</a> ?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Family Record of Moses and Aaron </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_6_13"> <sup>13</sup>Now the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron about the Israelites and Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he commanded them to bring the Israelites out of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_14"> <sup>14</sup>These were the heads of their families<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for families here and in verse 25 refers to units larger than clans.">⚓</a> : <br/> The sons of Reuben the firstborn son of Israel were Hanok and Pallu, Hezron and Karmi. These were the clans of Reuben. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>The sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman. These were the clans of Simeon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>These were the names of the sons of Levi according to their records: Gershon, Kohath and Merari. Levi lived 137 years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>The sons of Gershon, by clans, were Libni and Shimei. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_18"> <sup>18</sup>The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. Kohath lived 133 years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_19"> <sup>19</sup>The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. <br/> These were the clans of Levi according to their records. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_20"> <sup>20</sup>Amram married his father’s sister Jochebed, who bore him Aaron and Moses. Amram lived 137 years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_21"> <sup>21</sup>The sons of Izhar were Korah, Nepheg and Zikri. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_22"> <sup>22</sup>The sons of Uzziel were Mishael, Elzaphan and Sithri. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_23"> <sup>23</sup>Aaron married Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab and sister of Nahshon, and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_24"> <sup>24</sup>The sons of Korah were Assir, Elkanah and Abiasaph. These were the Korahite clans. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_25"> <sup>25</sup>Eleazar son of Aaron married one of the daughters of Putiel, and she bore him Phinehas. <br/> These were the heads of the Levite families, clan by clan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_26"> <sup>26</sup>It was this Aaron and Moses to whom the Lord said, “Bring the Israelites out of Egypt by their divisions.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_6_27"><sup>27</sup>They were the ones who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt about bringing the Israelites out of Egypt—this same Moses and Aaron. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Aaron to Speak for Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_6_28"> <sup>28</sup>Now when the Lord spoke to Moses in Egypt, </span>
<span class="verse xu_6_29"><sup>29</sup>he said to him, “I am the Lord. Tell Pharaoh king of Egypt everything I tell you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_6_30"> <sup>30</sup>But Moses said to the Lord, “Since I speak with faltering lips, why would Pharaoh listen to me?” <br/></span>
