---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1></div>
<span class="verse xu_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “See, I have made you like God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron will be your prophet. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_2"><sup>2</sup>You are to say everything I command you, and your brother Aaron is to tell Pharaoh to let the Israelites go out of his country. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_3"><sup>3</sup>But I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and though I multiply my signs and wonders in Egypt, </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_4"><sup>4</sup>he will not listen to you. Then I will lay my hand on Egypt and with mighty acts of judgment I will bring out my divisions, my people the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_5"><sup>5</sup>And the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord when I stretch out my hand against Egypt and bring the Israelites out of it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_7_6"> <sup>6</sup>Moses and Aaron did just as the Lord commanded them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_7"><sup>7</sup>Moses was eighty years old and Aaron eighty-three when they spoke to Pharaoh. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Aaron’s Staff Becomes a Snake </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_7_8"> <sup>8</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_9"><sup>9</sup>“When Pharaoh says to you, ‘Perform a miracle,’ then say to Aaron, ‘Take your staff and throw it down before Pharaoh,’ and it will become a snake.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_7_10"> <sup>10</sup>So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and did just as the Lord commanded. Aaron threw his staff down in front of Pharaoh and his officials, and it became a snake. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_11"><sup>11</sup>Pharaoh then summoned wise men and sorcerers, and the Egyptian magicians also did the same things by their secret arts: </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_12"><sup>12</sup>Each one threw down his staff and it became a snake. But Aaron’s staff swallowed up their staffs. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_13"><sup>13</sup>Yet Pharaoh’s heart became hard and he would not listen to them, just as the Lord had said. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Plague of Blood </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_7_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Pharaoh’s heart is unyielding; he refuses to let the people go. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_15"><sup>15</sup>Go to Pharaoh in the morning as he goes out to the river. Confront him on the bank of the Nile, and take in your hand the staff that was changed into a snake. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_16"><sup>16</sup>Then say to him, ‘The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to say to you: Let my people go, so that they may worship me in the wilderness. But until now you have not listened. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_17"><sup>17</sup>This is what the Lord says: By this you will know that I am the Lord: With the staff that is in my hand I will strike the water of the Nile, and it will be changed into blood. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_18"><sup>18</sup>The fish in the Nile will die, and the river will stink; the Egyptians will not be able to drink its water.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_7_19"> <sup>19</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Take your staff and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt—over the streams and canals, over the ponds and all the reservoirs—and they will turn to blood.’ Blood will be everywhere in Egypt, even in vessels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or even on their idols">⚓</a> of wood and stone.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_7_20"> <sup>20</sup>Moses and Aaron did just as the Lord had commanded. He raised his staff in the presence of Pharaoh and his officials and struck the water of the Nile, and all the water was changed into blood. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_21"><sup>21</sup>The fish in the Nile died, and the river smelled so bad that the Egyptians could not drink its water. Blood was everywhere in Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_7_22"> <sup>22</sup>But the Egyptian magicians did the same things by their secret arts, and Pharaoh’s heart became hard; he would not listen to Moses and Aaron, just as the Lord had said. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_23"><sup>23</sup>Instead, he turned and went into his palace, and did not take even this to heart. </span>
<span class="verse xu_7_24"><sup>24</sup>And all the Egyptians dug along the Nile to get drinking water, because they could not drink the water of the river. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_7_25"> <sup>25</sup>Seven days passed after the Lord struck the Nile. <br/></span>
