---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The Plague of Frogs </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Go to Pharaoh and say to him, ‘This is what the Lord says: Let my people go, so that they may worship me. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_2"><sup>2</sup>If you refuse to let them go, I will send a plague of frogs on your whole country. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_3"><sup>3</sup>The Nile will teem with frogs. They will come up into your palace and your bedroom and onto your bed, into the houses of your officials and on your people, and into your ovens and kneading troughs. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_4"><sup>4</sup>The frogs will come up on you and your people and all your officials.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Stretch out your hand with your staff over the streams and canals and ponds, and make frogs come up on the land of Egypt.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_7"><sup>7</sup>But the magicians did the same things by their secret arts; they also made frogs come up on the land of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_8"> <sup>8</sup>Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron and said, “Pray to the Lord to take the frogs away from me and my people, and I will let your people go to offer sacrifices to the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>Moses said to Pharaoh, “I leave to you the honor of setting the time for me to pray for you and your officials and your people that you and your houses may be rid of the frogs, except for those that remain in the Nile.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Tomorrow,” Pharaoh said. <br/> Moses replied, “It will be as you say, so that you may know there is no one like the Lord our God. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_11"><sup>11</sup>The frogs will leave you and your houses, your officials and your people; they will remain only in the Nile.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_12"> <sup>12</sup>After Moses and Aaron left Pharaoh, Moses cried out to the Lord about the frogs he had brought on Pharaoh. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_13"><sup>13</sup>And the Lord did what Moses asked. The frogs died in the houses, in the courtyards and in the fields. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_14"><sup>14</sup>They were piled into heaps, and the land reeked of them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_15"><sup>15</sup>But when Pharaoh saw that there was relief, he hardened his heart and would not listen to Moses and Aaron, just as the Lord had said. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Plague of Gnats </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_8_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Stretch out your staff and strike the dust of the ground,’ and throughout the land of Egypt the dust will become gnats.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_17"><sup>17</sup>They did this, and when Aaron stretched out his hand with the staff and struck the dust of the ground, gnats came on people and animals. All the dust throughout the land of Egypt became gnats. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_18"><sup>18</sup>But when the magicians tried to produce gnats by their secret arts, they could not. <br/> Since the gnats were on people and animals everywhere, </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_19"><sup>19</sup>the magicians said to Pharaoh, “This is the finger of God.” But Pharaoh’s heart was hard and he would not listen, just as the Lord had said. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Plague of Flies </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_8_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Get up early in the morning and confront Pharaoh as he goes to the river and say to him, ‘This is what the Lord says: Let my people go, so that they may worship me. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_21"><sup>21</sup>If you do not let my people go, I will send swarms of flies on you and your officials, on your people and into your houses. The houses of the Egyptians will be full of flies; even the ground will be covered with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_22"> <sup>22</sup>“ ‘But on that day I will deal differently with the land of Goshen, where my people live; no swarms of flies will be there, so that you will know that I, the Lord, am in this land. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_23"><sup>23</sup>I will make a distinction<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint and Vulgate; Hebrew will put a deliverance">⚓</a> between my people and your people. This sign will occur tomorrow.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_24"> <sup>24</sup>And the Lord did this. Dense swarms of flies poured into Pharaoh’s palace and into the houses of his officials; throughout Egypt the land was ruined by the flies. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron and said, “Go, sacrifice to your God here in the land.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_26"> <sup>26</sup>But Moses said, “That would not be right. The sacrifices we offer the Lord our God would be detestable to the Egyptians. And if we offer sacrifices that are detestable in their eyes, will they not stone us? </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_27"><sup>27</sup>We must take a three-day journey into the wilderness to offer sacrifices to the Lord our God, as he commands us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_28"> <sup>28</sup>Pharaoh said, “I will let you go to offer sacrifices to the Lord your God in the wilderness, but you must not go very far. Now pray for me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_29"> <sup>29</sup>Moses answered, “As soon as I leave you, I will pray to the Lord, and tomorrow the flies will leave Pharaoh and his officials and his people. Only let Pharaoh be sure that he does not act deceitfully again by not letting the people go to offer sacrifices to the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_8_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then Moses left Pharaoh and prayed to the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_31"><sup>31</sup>and the Lord did what Moses asked. The flies left Pharaoh and his officials and his people; not a fly remained. </span>
<span class="verse xu_8_32"><sup>32</sup>But this time also Pharaoh hardened his heart and would not let the people go. <br/></span>
