---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Plague of Locusts </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Go to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the hearts of his officials so that I may perform these signs of mine among them </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_2"><sup>2</sup>that you may tell your children and grandchildren how I dealt harshly with the Egyptians and how I performed my signs among them, and that you may know that I am the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_3"> <sup>3</sup>So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said to him, “This is what the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, says: ‘How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people go, so that they may worship me. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_4"><sup>4</sup>If you refuse to let them go, I will bring locusts into your country tomorrow. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_5"><sup>5</sup>They will cover the face of the ground so that it cannot be seen. They will devour what little you have left after the hail, including every tree that is growing in your fields. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_6"><sup>6</sup>They will fill your houses and those of all your officials and all the Egyptians—something neither your parents nor your ancestors have ever seen from the day they settled in this land till now.’ ” Then Moses turned and left Pharaoh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_7"> <sup>7</sup>Pharaoh’s officials said to him, “How long will this man be a snare to us? Let the people go, so that they may worship the Lord their God. Do you not yet realize that Egypt is ruined?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh. “Go, worship the Lord your God,” he said. “But tell me who will be going.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_9"> <sup>9</sup>Moses answered, “We will go with our young and our old, with our sons and our daughters, and with our flocks and herds, because we are to celebrate a festival to the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_10"> <sup>10</sup>Pharaoh said, “The Lord be with you—if I let you go, along with your women and children! Clearly you are bent on evil.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Be careful, trouble is in store for you!">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_11"><sup>11</sup>No! Have only the men go and worship the Lord, since that’s what you have been asking for.” Then Moses and Aaron were driven out of Pharaoh’s presence. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>And the Lord said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand over Egypt so that locusts swarm over the land and devour everything growing in the fields, everything left by the hail.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_13"> <sup>13</sup>So Moses stretched out his staff over Egypt, and the Lord made an east wind blow across the land all that day and all that night. By morning the wind had brought the locusts; </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_14"><sup>14</sup>they invaded all Egypt and settled down in every area of the country in great numbers. Never before had there been such a plague of locusts, nor will there ever be again. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_15"><sup>15</sup>They covered all the ground until it was black. They devoured all that was left after the hail—everything growing in the fields and the fruit on the trees. Nothing green remained on tree or plant in all the land of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>Pharaoh quickly summoned Moses and Aaron and said, “I have sinned against the Lord your God and against you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_17"><sup>17</sup>Now forgive my sin once more and pray to the Lord your God to take this deadly plague away from me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>Moses then left Pharaoh and prayed to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_19"><sup>19</sup>And the Lord changed the wind to a very strong west wind, which caught up the locusts and carried them into the Red Sea.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a> Not a locust was left anywhere in Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_20"><sup>20</sup>But the Lord hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he would not let the Israelites go. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Plague of Darkness </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_10_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand toward the sky so that darkness spreads over Egypt—darkness that can be felt.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_22"><sup>22</sup>So Moses stretched out his hand toward the sky, and total darkness covered all Egypt for three days. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_23"><sup>23</sup>No one could see anyone else or move about for three days. Yet all the Israelites had light in the places where they lived. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and said, “Go, worship the Lord. Even your women and children may go with you; only leave your flocks and herds behind.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_25"> <sup>25</sup>But Moses said, “You must allow us to have sacrifices and burnt offerings to present to the Lord our God. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_26"><sup>26</sup>Our livestock too must go with us; not a hoof is to be left behind. We have to use some of them in worshiping the Lord our God, and until we get there we will not know what we are to use to worship the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_27"> <sup>27</sup>But the Lord hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he was not willing to let them go. </span>
<span class="verse xu_10_28"><sup>28</sup>Pharaoh said to Moses, “Get out of my sight! Make sure you do not appear before me again! The day you see my face you will die.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_10_29"> <sup>29</sup>“Just as you say,” Moses replied. “I will never appear before you again.” <br/></span>
