---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>The Plague on the Firstborn </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now the Lord had said to Moses, “I will bring one more plague on Pharaoh and on Egypt. After that, he will let you go from here, and when he does, he will drive you out completely. </span>
<span class="verse xu_11_2"><sup>2</sup>Tell the people that men and women alike are to ask their neighbors for articles of silver and gold.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_11_3"><sup>3</sup>(The Lord made the Egyptians favorably disposed toward the people, and Moses himself was highly regarded in Egypt by Pharaoh’s officials and by the people.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Moses said, “This is what the Lord says: ‘About midnight I will go throughout Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse xu_11_5"><sup>5</sup>Every firstborn son in Egypt will die, from the firstborn son of Pharaoh, who sits on the throne, to the firstborn son of the female slave, who is at her hand mill, and all the firstborn of the cattle as well. </span>
<span class="verse xu_11_6"><sup>6</sup>There will be loud wailing throughout Egypt—worse than there has ever been or ever will be again. </span>
<span class="verse xu_11_7"><sup>7</sup>But among the Israelites not a dog will bark at any person or animal.’ Then you will know that the Lord makes a distinction between Egypt and Israel. </span>
<span class="verse xu_11_8"><sup>8</sup>All these officials of yours will come to me, bowing down before me and saying, ‘Go, you and all the people who follow you!’ After that I will leave.” Then Moses, hot with anger, left Pharaoh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Lord had said to Moses, “Pharaoh will refuse to listen to you—so that my wonders may be multiplied in Egypt.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_11_10"><sup>10</sup>Moses and Aaron performed all these wonders before Pharaoh, but the Lord hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he would not let the Israelites go out of his country. <br/></span>
