---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>The Passover and the Festival of Unleavened Bread </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron in Egypt, </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_2"><sup>2</sup>“This month is to be for you the first month, the first month of your year. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_3"><sup>3</sup>Tell the whole community of Israel that on the tenth day of this month each man is to take a lamb<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word can mean lamb or kid ; also in verse 4.">⚓</a> for his family, one for each household. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_4"><sup>4</sup>If any household is too small for a whole lamb, they must share one with their nearest neighbor, having taken into account the number of people there are. You are to determine the amount of lamb needed in accordance with what each person will eat. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_5"><sup>5</sup>The animals you choose must be year-old males without defect, and you may take them from the sheep or the goats. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_6"><sup>6</sup>Take care of them until the fourteenth day of the month, when all the members of the community of Israel must slaughter them at twilight. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_7"><sup>7</sup>Then they are to take some of the blood and put it on the sides and tops of the doorframes of the houses where they eat the lambs. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_8"><sup>8</sup>That same night they are to eat the meat roasted over the fire, along with bitter herbs, and bread made without yeast. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_9"><sup>9</sup>Do not eat the meat raw or boiled in water, but roast it over a fire—with the head, legs and internal organs. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_10"><sup>10</sup>Do not leave any of it till morning; if some is left till morning, you must burn it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_11"><sup>11</sup>This is how you are to eat it: with your cloak tucked into your belt, your sandals on your feet and your staff in your hand. Eat it in haste; it is the Lord’s Passover. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_12"> <sup>12</sup>“On that same night I will pass through Egypt and strike down every firstborn of both people and animals, and I will bring judgment on all the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_13"><sup>13</sup>The blood will be a sign for you on the houses where you are, and when I see the blood, I will pass over you. No destructive plague will touch you when I strike Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_14"> <sup>14</sup>“This is a day you are to commemorate; for the generations to come you shall celebrate it as a festival to the Lord—a lasting ordinance. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_15"><sup>15</sup>For seven days you are to eat bread made without yeast. On the first day remove the yeast from your houses, for whoever eats anything with yeast in it from the first day through the seventh must be cut off from Israel. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_16"><sup>16</sup>On the first day hold a sacred assembly, and another one on the seventh day. Do no work at all on these days, except to prepare food for everyone to eat; that is all you may do. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Celebrate the Festival of Unleavened Bread, because it was on this very day that I brought your divisions out of Egypt. Celebrate this day as a lasting ordinance for the generations to come. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_18"><sup>18</sup>In the first month you are to eat bread made without yeast, from the evening of the fourteenth day until the evening of the twenty-first day. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_19"><sup>19</sup>For seven days no yeast is to be found in your houses. And anyone, whether foreigner or native-born, who eats anything with yeast in it must be cut off from the community of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_20"><sup>20</sup>Eat nothing made with yeast. Wherever you live, you must eat unleavened bread.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then Moses summoned all the elders of Israel and said to them, “Go at once and select the animals for your families and slaughter the Passover lamb. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_22"><sup>22</sup>Take a bunch of hyssop, dip it into the blood in the basin and put some of the blood on the top and on both sides of the doorframe. None of you shall go out of the door of your house until morning. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_23"><sup>23</sup>When the Lord goes through the land to strike down the Egyptians, he will see the blood on the top and sides of the doorframe and will pass over that doorway, and he will not permit the destroyer to enter your houses and strike you down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_24"> <sup>24</sup>“Obey these instructions as a lasting ordinance for you and your descendants. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_25"><sup>25</sup>When you enter the land that the Lord will give you as he promised, observe this ceremony. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_26"><sup>26</sup>And when your children ask you, ‘What does this ceremony mean to you?’ </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_27"><sup>27</sup>then tell them, ‘It is the Passover sacrifice to the Lord, who passed over the houses of the Israelites in Egypt and spared our homes when he struck down the Egyptians.’ ” Then the people bowed down and worshiped. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_28"><sup>28</sup>The Israelites did just what the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_29"> <sup>29</sup>At midnight the Lord struck down all the firstborn in Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh, who sat on the throne, to the firstborn of the prisoner, who was in the dungeon, and the firstborn of all the livestock as well. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_30"><sup>30</sup>Pharaoh and all his officials and all the Egyptians got up during the night, and there was loud wailing in Egypt, for there was not a house without someone dead. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Exodus </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_12_31"> <sup>31</sup>During the night Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron and said, “Up! Leave my people, you and the Israelites! Go, worship the Lord as you have requested. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_32"><sup>32</sup>Take your flocks and herds, as you have said, and go. And also bless me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_33"> <sup>33</sup>The Egyptians urged the people to hurry and leave the country. “For otherwise,” they said, “we will all die!” </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_34"><sup>34</sup>So the people took their dough before the yeast was added, and carried it on their shoulders in kneading troughs wrapped in clothing. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_35"><sup>35</sup>The Israelites did as Moses instructed and asked the Egyptians for articles of silver and gold and for clothing. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_36"><sup>36</sup>The Lord had made the Egyptians favorably disposed toward the people, and they gave them what they asked for; so they plundered the Egyptians. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_37"> <sup>37</sup>The Israelites journeyed from Rameses to Sukkoth. There were about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides women and children. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_38"><sup>38</sup>Many other people went up with them, and also large droves of livestock, both flocks and herds. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_39"><sup>39</sup>With the dough the Israelites had brought from Egypt, they baked loaves of unleavened bread. The dough was without yeast because they had been driven out of Egypt and did not have time to prepare food for themselves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_40"> <sup>40</sup>Now the length of time the Israelite people lived in Egypt<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Samaritan Pentateuch and Septuagint Egypt and Canaan">⚓</a> was 430 years. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_41"><sup>41</sup>At the end of the 430 years, to the very day, all the Lord’s divisions left Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_42"><sup>42</sup>Because the Lord kept vigil that night to bring them out of Egypt, on this night all the Israelites are to keep vigil to honor the Lord for the generations to come. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Passover Restrictions </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_12_43"> <sup>43</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, “These are the regulations for the Passover meal: <br/> “No foreigner may eat it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_44"><sup>44</sup>Any slave you have bought may eat it after you have circumcised him, </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_45"><sup>45</sup>but a temporary resident or a hired worker may not eat it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_46"> <sup>46</sup>“It must be eaten inside the house; take none of the meat outside the house. Do not break any of the bones. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_47"><sup>47</sup>The whole community of Israel must celebrate it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_48"> <sup>48</sup>“A foreigner residing among you who wants to celebrate the Lord’s Passover must have all the males in his household circumcised; then he may take part like one born in the land. No uncircumcised male may eat it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_49"><sup>49</sup>The same law applies both to the native-born and to the foreigner residing among you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_12_50"> <sup>50</sup>All the Israelites did just what the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron. </span>
<span class="verse xu_12_51"><sup>51</sup>And on that very day the Lord brought the Israelites out of Egypt by their divisions. <br/></span>
