---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1></div>
<span class="verse xu_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_2"><sup>2</sup>“Tell the Israelites to turn back and encamp near Pi Hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea. They are to encamp by the sea, directly opposite Baal Zephon. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_3"><sup>3</sup>Pharaoh will think, ‘The Israelites are wandering around the land in confusion, hemmed in by the desert.’ </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_4"><sup>4</sup>And I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and he will pursue them. But I will gain glory for myself through Pharaoh and all his army, and the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord.” So the Israelites did this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_5"> <sup>5</sup>When the king of Egypt was told that the people had fled, Pharaoh and his officials changed their minds about them and said, “What have we done? We have let the Israelites go and have lost their services!” </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_6"><sup>6</sup>So he had his chariot made ready and took his army with him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_7"><sup>7</sup>He took six hundred of the best chariots, along with all the other chariots of Egypt, with officers over all of them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_8"><sup>8</sup>The Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, so that he pursued the Israelites, who were marching out boldly. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_9"><sup>9</sup>The Egyptians—all Pharaoh’s horses and chariots, horsemen<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or charioteers ; also in verses 17, 18, 23, 26 and 28">⚓</a> and troops—pursued the Israelites and overtook them as they camped by the sea near Pi Hahiroth, opposite Baal Zephon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_10"> <sup>10</sup>As Pharaoh approached, the Israelites looked up, and there were the Egyptians, marching after them. They were terrified and cried out to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_11"><sup>11</sup>They said to Moses, “Was it because there were no graves in Egypt that you brought us to the desert to die? What have you done to us by bringing us out of Egypt? </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_12"><sup>12</sup>Didn’t we say to you in Egypt, ‘Leave us alone; let us serve the Egyptians’? It would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the desert!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>Moses answered the people, “Do not be afraid. Stand firm and you will see the deliverance the Lord will bring you today. The Egyptians you see today you will never see again. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_14"><sup>14</sup>The Lord will fight for you; you need only to be still.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Why are you crying out to me? Tell the Israelites to move on. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_16"><sup>16</sup>Raise your staff and stretch out your hand over the sea to divide the water so that the Israelites can go through the sea on dry ground. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_17"><sup>17</sup>I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians so that they will go in after them. And I will gain glory through Pharaoh and all his army, through his chariots and his horsemen. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_18"><sup>18</sup>The Egyptians will know that I am the Lord when I gain glory through Pharaoh, his chariots and his horsemen.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then the angel of God, who had been traveling in front of Israel’s army, withdrew and went behind them. The pillar of cloud also moved from in front and stood behind them, </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_20"><sup>20</sup>coming between the armies of Egypt and Israel. Throughout the night the cloud brought darkness to the one side and light to the other side; so neither went near the other all night long. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and all that night the Lord drove the sea back with a strong east wind and turned it into dry land. The waters were divided, </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_22"><sup>22</sup>and the Israelites went through the sea on dry ground, with a wall of water on their right and on their left. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_23"> <sup>23</sup>The Egyptians pursued them, and all Pharaoh’s horses and chariots and horsemen followed them into the sea. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_24"><sup>24</sup>During the last watch of the night the Lord looked down from the pillar of fire and cloud at the Egyptian army and threw it into confusion. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_25"><sup>25</sup>He jammed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Samaritan Pentateuch, Septuagint and Syriac; Masoretic Text removed">⚓</a> the wheels of their chariots so that they had difficulty driving. And the Egyptians said, “Let’s get away from the Israelites! The Lord is fighting for them against Egypt.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand over the sea so that the waters may flow back over the Egyptians and their chariots and horsemen.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_27"><sup>27</sup>Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and at daybreak the sea went back to its place. The Egyptians were fleeing toward<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or from">⚓</a> it, and the Lord swept them into the sea. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_28"><sup>28</sup>The water flowed back and covered the chariots and horsemen—the entire army of Pharaoh that had followed the Israelites into the sea. Not one of them survived. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_14_29"> <sup>29</sup>But the Israelites went through the sea on dry ground, with a wall of water on their right and on their left. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_30"><sup>30</sup>That day the Lord saved Israel from the hands of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians lying dead on the shore. </span>
<span class="verse xu_14_31"><sup>31</sup>And when the Israelites saw the mighty hand of the Lord displayed against the Egyptians, the people feared the Lord and put their trust in him and in Moses his servant. <br/></span>
