---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Manna and Quail </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>The whole Israelite community set out from Elim and came to the Desert of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after they had come out of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_2"><sup>2</sup>In the desert the whole community grumbled against Moses and Aaron. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_3"><sup>3</sup>The Israelites said to them, “If only we had died by the Lord’s hand in Egypt! There we sat around pots of meat and ate all the food we wanted, but you have brought us out into this desert to starve this entire assembly to death.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “I will rain down bread from heaven for you. The people are to go out each day and gather enough for that day. In this way I will test them and see whether they will follow my instructions. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_5"><sup>5</sup>On the sixth day they are to prepare what they bring in, and that is to be twice as much as they gather on the other days.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites, “In the evening you will know that it was the Lord who brought you out of Egypt, </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_7"><sup>7</sup>and in the morning you will see the glory of the Lord, because he has heard your grumbling against him. Who are we, that you should grumble against us?” </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_8"><sup>8</sup>Moses also said, “You will know that it was the Lord when he gives you meat to eat in the evening and all the bread you want in the morning, because he has heard your grumbling against him. Who are we? You are not grumbling against us, but against the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Moses told Aaron, “Say to the entire Israelite community, ‘Come before the Lord, for he has heard your grumbling.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_10"> <sup>10</sup>While Aaron was speaking to the whole Israelite community, they looked toward the desert, and there was the glory of the Lord appearing in the cloud. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_11"> <sup>11</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_12"><sup>12</sup>“I have heard the grumbling of the Israelites. Tell them, ‘At twilight you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be filled with bread. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_13"> <sup>13</sup>That evening quail came and covered the camp, and in the morning there was a layer of dew around the camp. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_14"><sup>14</sup>When the dew was gone, thin flakes like frost on the ground appeared on the desert floor. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_15"><sup>15</sup>When the Israelites saw it, they said to each other, “What is it?” For they did not know what it was. <br/> Moses said to them, “It is the bread the Lord has given you to eat. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_16"><sup>16</sup>This is what the Lord has commanded: ‘Everyone is to gather as much as they need. Take an omer<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, possibly about 3 pounds or about 1.4 kilograms; also in verses 18, 32, 33 and 36">⚓</a> for each person you have in your tent.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_17"> <sup>17</sup>The Israelites did as they were told; some gathered much, some little. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_18"><sup>18</sup>And when they measured it by the omer, the one who gathered much did not have too much, and the one who gathered little did not have too little. Everyone had gathered just as much as they needed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then Moses said to them, “No one is to keep any of it until morning.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_20"> <sup>20</sup>However, some of them paid no attention to Moses; they kept part of it until morning, but it was full of maggots and began to smell. So Moses was angry with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_21"> <sup>21</sup>Each morning everyone gathered as much as they needed, and when the sun grew hot, it melted away. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_22"><sup>22</sup>On the sixth day, they gathered twice as much—two omers<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, possibly about 6 pounds or about 2.8 kilograms">⚓</a> for each person—and the leaders of the community came and reported this to Moses. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_23"><sup>23</sup>He said to them, “This is what the Lord commanded: ‘Tomorrow is to be a day of sabbath rest, a holy sabbath to the Lord. So bake what you want to bake and boil what you want to boil. Save whatever is left and keep it until morning.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_24"> <sup>24</sup>So they saved it until morning, as Moses commanded, and it did not stink or get maggots in it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_25"><sup>25</sup>“Eat it today,” Moses said, “because today is a sabbath to the Lord. You will not find any of it on the ground today. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_26"><sup>26</sup>Six days you are to gather it, but on the seventh day, the Sabbath, there will not be any.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_27"> <sup>27</sup>Nevertheless, some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather it, but they found none. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_28"><sup>28</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “How long will you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew is plural.">⚓</a> refuse to keep my commands and my instructions? </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_29"><sup>29</sup>Bear in mind that the Lord has given you the Sabbath; that is why on the sixth day he gives you bread for two days. Everyone is to stay where they are on the seventh day; no one is to go out.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_30"><sup>30</sup>So the people rested on the seventh day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_31"> <sup>31</sup>The people of Israel called the bread manna.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for What is it? (see verse 15).">⚓</a> It was white like coriander seed and tasted like wafers made with honey. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_32"><sup>32</sup>Moses said, “This is what the Lord has commanded: ‘Take an omer of manna and keep it for the generations to come, so they can see the bread I gave you to eat in the wilderness when I brought you out of Egypt.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_33"> <sup>33</sup>So Moses said to Aaron, “Take a jar and put an omer of manna in it. Then place it before the Lord to be kept for the generations to come.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_34"> <sup>34</sup>As the Lord commanded Moses, Aaron put the manna with the tablets of the covenant law, so that it might be preserved. </span>
<span class="verse xu_16_35"><sup>35</sup>The Israelites ate manna forty years, until they came to a land that was settled; they ate manna until they reached the border of Canaan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_16_36"> <sup>36</sup>(An omer is one-tenth of an ephah.) <br/></span>
