---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>Water From the Rock </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>The whole Israelite community set out from the Desert of Sin, traveling from place to place as the Lord commanded. They camped at Rephidim, but there was no water for the people to drink. </span>
<span class="verse xu_17_2"><sup>2</sup>So they quarreled with Moses and said, “Give us water to drink.” <br/> Moses replied, “Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you put the Lord to the test?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_17_3"> <sup>3</sup>But the people were thirsty for water there, and they grumbled against Moses. They said, “Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to make us and our children and livestock die of thirst?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_17_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then Moses cried out to the Lord, “What am I to do with these people? They are almost ready to stone me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_17_5"> <sup>5</sup>The Lord answered Moses, “Go out in front of the people. Take with you some of the elders of Israel and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile, and go. </span>
<span class="verse xu_17_6"><sup>6</sup>I will stand there before you by the rock at Horeb. Strike the rock, and water will come out of it for the people to drink.” So Moses did this in the sight of the elders of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse xu_17_7"><sup>7</sup>And he called the place Massah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means testing.">⚓</a> and Meribah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means quarreling.">⚓</a> because the Israelites quarreled and because they tested the Lord saying, “Is the Lord among us or not?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Amalekites Defeated </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_17_8"> <sup>8</sup>The Amalekites came and attacked the Israelites at Rephidim. </span>
<span class="verse xu_17_9"><sup>9</sup>Moses said to Joshua, “Choose some of our men and go out to fight the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with the staff of God in my hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_17_10"> <sup>10</sup>So Joshua fought the Amalekites as Moses had ordered, and Moses, Aaron and Hur went to the top of the hill. </span>
<span class="verse xu_17_11"><sup>11</sup>As long as Moses held up his hands, the Israelites were winning, but whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning. </span>
<span class="verse xu_17_12"><sup>12</sup>When Moses’ hands grew tired, they took a stone and put it under him and he sat on it. Aaron and Hur held his hands up—one on one side, one on the other—so that his hands remained steady till sunset. </span>
<span class="verse xu_17_13"><sup>13</sup>So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with the sword. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_17_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Write this on a scroll as something to be remembered and make sure that Joshua hears it, because I will completely blot out the name of Amalek from under heaven.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_17_15"> <sup>15</sup>Moses built an altar and called it The Lord is my Banner. </span>
<span class="verse xu_17_16"><sup>16</sup>He said, “Because hands were lifted up against<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to">⚓</a> the throne of the Lord,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this clause is uncertain.">⚓</a> the Lord will be at war against the Amalekites from generation to generation.” <br/></span>
