---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>Jethro Visits Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Jethro, the priest of Midian and father-in-law of Moses, heard of everything God had done for Moses and for his people Israel, and how the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_2"> <sup>2</sup>After Moses had sent away his wife Zipporah, his father-in-law Jethro received her </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_3"><sup>3</sup>and her two sons. One son was named Gershom,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for a foreigner there.">⚓</a> for Moses said, “I have become a foreigner in a foreign land”; </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_4"><sup>4</sup>and the other was named Eliezer,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means my God is helper.">⚓</a> for he said, “My father’s God was my helper; he saved me from the sword of Pharaoh.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_5"> <sup>5</sup>Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, together with Moses’ sons and wife, came to him in the wilderness, where he was camped near the mountain of God. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_6"><sup>6</sup>Jethro had sent word to him, “I, your father-in-law Jethro, am coming to you with your wife and her two sons.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_7"> <sup>7</sup>So Moses went out to meet his father-in-law and bowed down and kissed him. They greeted each other and then went into the tent. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_8"><sup>8</sup>Moses told his father-in-law about everything the Lord had done to Pharaoh and the Egyptians for Israel’s sake and about all the hardships they had met along the way and how the Lord had saved them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>Jethro was delighted to hear about all the good things the Lord had done for Israel in rescuing them from the hand of the Egyptians. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_10"><sup>10</sup>He said, “Praise be to the Lord, who rescued you from the hand of the Egyptians and of Pharaoh, and who rescued the people from the hand of the Egyptians. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_11"><sup>11</sup>Now I know that the Lord is greater than all other gods, for he did this to those who had treated Israel arrogantly.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_12"><sup>12</sup>Then Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, brought a burnt offering and other sacrifices to God, and Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat a meal with Moses’ father-in-law in the presence of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_13"> <sup>13</sup>The next day Moses took his seat to serve as judge for the people, and they stood around him from morning till evening. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_14"><sup>14</sup>When his father-in-law saw all that Moses was doing for the people, he said, “What is this you are doing for the people? Why do you alone sit as judge, while all these people stand around you from morning till evening?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_15"> <sup>15</sup>Moses answered him, “Because the people come to me to seek God’s will. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_16"><sup>16</sup>Whenever they have a dispute, it is brought to me, and I decide between the parties and inform them of God’s decrees and instructions.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_17"> <sup>17</sup>Moses’ father-in-law replied, “What you are doing is not good. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_18"><sup>18</sup>You and these people who come to you will only wear yourselves out. The work is too heavy for you; you cannot handle it alone. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_19"><sup>19</sup>Listen now to me and I will give you some advice, and may God be with you. You must be the people’s representative before God and bring their disputes to him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_20"><sup>20</sup>Teach them his decrees and instructions, and show them the way they are to live and how they are to behave. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_21"><sup>21</sup>But select capable men from all the people—men who fear God, trustworthy men who hate dishonest gain—and appoint them as officials over thousands, hundreds, fifties and tens. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_22"><sup>22</sup>Have them serve as judges for the people at all times, but have them bring every difficult case to you; the simple cases they can decide themselves. That will make your load lighter, because they will share it with you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_23"><sup>23</sup>If you do this and God so commands, you will be able to stand the strain, and all these people will go home satisfied.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_24"> <sup>24</sup>Moses listened to his father-in-law and did everything he said. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_25"><sup>25</sup>He chose capable men from all Israel and made them leaders of the people, officials over thousands, hundreds, fifties and tens. </span>
<span class="verse xu_18_26"><sup>26</sup>They served as judges for the people at all times. The difficult cases they brought to Moses, but the simple ones they decided themselves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_18_27"> <sup>27</sup>Then Moses sent his father-in-law on his way, and Jethro returned to his own country. <br/></span>
