---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>At Mount Sinai </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>On the first day of the third month after the Israelites left Egypt—on that very day—they came to the Desert of Sinai. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_2"><sup>2</sup>After they set out from Rephidim, they entered the Desert of Sinai, and Israel camped there in the desert in front of the mountain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then Moses went up to God, and the Lord called to him from the mountain and said, “This is what you are to say to the descendants of Jacob and what you are to tell the people of Israel: </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_4"><sup>4</sup>‘You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt, and how I carried you on eagles’ wings and brought you to myself. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_5"><sup>5</sup>Now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_6"><sup>6</sup>you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or possession, for the whole earth is mine. 6You">⚓</a> will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation.’ These are the words you are to speak to the Israelites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_7"> <sup>7</sup>So Moses went back and summoned the elders of the people and set before them all the words the Lord had commanded him to speak. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_8"><sup>8</sup>The people all responded together, “We will do everything the Lord has said.” So Moses brought their answer back to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “I am going to come to you in a dense cloud, so that the people will hear me speaking with you and will always put their trust in you.” Then Moses told the Lord what the people had said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_10"> <sup>10</sup>And the Lord said to Moses, “Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow. Have them wash their clothes </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_11"><sup>11</sup>and be ready by the third day, because on that day the Lord will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_12"><sup>12</sup>Put limits for the people around the mountain and tell them, ‘Be careful that you do not approach the mountain or touch the foot of it. Whoever touches the mountain is to be put to death. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_13"><sup>13</sup>They are to be stoned or shot with arrows; not a hand is to be laid on them. No person or animal shall be permitted to live.’ Only when the ram’s horn sounds a long blast may they approach the mountain.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_14"> <sup>14</sup>After Moses had gone down the mountain to the people, he consecrated them, and they washed their clothes. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_15"><sup>15</sup>Then he said to the people, “Prepare yourselves for the third day. Abstain from sexual relations.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_16"> <sup>16</sup>On the morning of the third day there was thunder and lightning, with a thick cloud over the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast. Everyone in the camp trembled. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_17"><sup>17</sup>Then Moses led the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_18"><sup>18</sup>Mount Sinai was covered with smoke, because the Lord descended on it in fire. The smoke billowed up from it like smoke from a furnace, and the whole mountain<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most Hebrew manuscripts; a few Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint and all the people">⚓</a> trembled violently. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_19"><sup>19</sup>As the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke and the voice of God answered him.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and God answered him with thunder">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_20"> <sup>20</sup>The Lord descended to the top of Mount Sinai and called Moses to the top of the mountain. So Moses went up </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_21"><sup>21</sup>and the Lord said to him, “Go down and warn the people so they do not force their way through to see the Lord and many of them perish. </span>
<span class="verse xu_19_22"><sup>22</sup>Even the priests, who approach the Lord, must consecrate themselves, or the Lord will break out against them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_23"> <sup>23</sup>Moses said to the Lord, “The people cannot come up Mount Sinai, because you yourself warned us, ‘Put limits around the mountain and set it apart as holy.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_24"> <sup>24</sup>The Lord replied, “Go down and bring Aaron up with you. But the priests and the people must not force their way through to come up to the Lord, or he will break out against them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_19_25"> <sup>25</sup>So Moses went down to the people and told them. <br/></span>
