---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>The Ten Commandments </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>And God spoke all these words: <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_2">  <sup>2</sup>“I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_3">  <sup>3</sup>“You shall have no other gods before<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or besides">⚓</a> me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_4">  <sup>4</sup>“You shall not make for yourself an image in the form of anything in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the waters below. </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_5"><sup>5</sup>You shall not bow down to them or worship them; for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, punishing the children for the sin of the parents to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_6"><sup>6</sup>but showing love to a thousand generations of those who love me and keep my commandments. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_7">  <sup>7</sup>“You shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God, for the Lord will not hold anyone guiltless who misuses his name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_8">  <sup>8</sup>“Remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy. </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_9"><sup>9</sup>Six days you shall labor and do all your work, </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_10"><sup>10</sup>but the seventh day is a sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, neither you, nor your son or daughter, nor your male or female servant, nor your animals, nor any foreigner residing in your towns. </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_11"><sup>11</sup>For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, but he rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Honor your father and your mother, so that you may live long in the land the Lord your God is giving you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_13">  <sup>13</sup>“You shall not murder. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_14">  <sup>14</sup>“You shall not commit adultery. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_15">  <sup>15</sup>“You shall not steal. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_16">  <sup>16</sup>“You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_17">  <sup>17</sup>“You shall not covet your neighbor’s house. You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, or his male or female servant, his ox or donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_18"> <sup>18</sup>When the people saw the thunder and lightning and heard the trumpet and saw the mountain in smoke, they trembled with fear. They stayed at a distance </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_19"><sup>19</sup>and said to Moses, “Speak to us yourself and we will listen. But do not have God speak to us or we will die.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_20"> <sup>20</sup>Moses said to the people, “Do not be afraid. God has come to test you, so that the fear of God will be with you to keep you from sinning.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_21"> <sup>21</sup>The people remained at a distance, while Moses approached the thick darkness where God was. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Idols and Altars </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_20_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Tell the Israelites this: ‘You have seen for yourselves that I have spoken to you from heaven: </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_23"><sup>23</sup>Do not make any gods to be alongside me; do not make for yourselves gods of silver or gods of gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_20_24"> <sup>24</sup>“ ‘Make an altar of earth for me and sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, your sheep and goats and your cattle. Wherever I cause my name to be honored, I will come to you and bless you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_25"><sup>25</sup>If you make an altar of stones for me, do not build it with dressed stones, for you will defile it if you use a tool on it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_20_26"><sup>26</sup>And do not go up to my altar on steps, or your private parts may be exposed.’ <br/></span>
