---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1></div>
<span class="verse xu_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>“These are the laws you are to set before them: <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Hebrew Servants </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_21_2"> <sup>2</sup>“If you buy a Hebrew servant, he is to serve you for six years. But in the seventh year, he shall go free, without paying anything. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_3"><sup>3</sup>If he comes alone, he is to go free alone; but if he has a wife when he comes, she is to go with him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_4"><sup>4</sup>If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the woman and her children shall belong to her master, and only the man shall go free. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_5"> <sup>5</sup>“But if the servant declares, ‘I love my master and my wife and children and do not want to go free,’ </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_6"><sup>6</sup>then his master must take him before the judges.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or before God">⚓</a> He shall take him to the door or the doorpost and pierce his ear with an awl. Then he will be his servant for life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_7"> <sup>7</sup>“If a man sells his daughter as a servant, she is not to go free as male servants do. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_8"><sup>8</sup>If she does not please the master who has selected her for himself,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or master so that he does not choose her">⚓</a> he must let her be redeemed. He has no right to sell her to foreigners, because he has broken faith with her. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_9"><sup>9</sup>If he selects her for his son, he must grant her the rights of a daughter. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_10"><sup>10</sup>If he marries another woman, he must not deprive the first one of her food, clothing and marital rights. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_11"><sup>11</sup>If he does not provide her with these three things, she is to go free, without any payment of money. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Personal Injuries </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_21_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Anyone who strikes a person with a fatal blow is to be put to death. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_13"><sup>13</sup>However, if it is not done intentionally, but God lets it happen, they are to flee to a place I will designate. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_14"><sup>14</sup>But if anyone schemes and kills someone deliberately, that person is to be taken from my altar and put to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Anyone who attacks<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or kills">⚓</a> their father or mother is to be put to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_16"> <sup>16</sup>“Anyone who kidnaps someone is to be put to death, whether the victim has been sold or is still in the kidnapper’s possession. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Anyone who curses their father or mother is to be put to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_18"> <sup>18</sup>“If people quarrel and one person hits another with a stone or with their fist<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or with a tool">⚓</a> and the victim does not die but is confined to bed, </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_19"><sup>19</sup>the one who struck the blow will not be held liable if the other can get up and walk around outside with a staff; however, the guilty party must pay the injured person for any loss of time and see that the victim is completely healed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_20"> <sup>20</sup>“Anyone who beats their male or female slave with a rod must be punished if the slave dies as a direct result, </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_21"><sup>21</sup>but they are not to be punished if the slave recovers after a day or two, since the slave is their property. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_22"> <sup>22</sup>“If people are fighting and hit a pregnant woman and she gives birth prematurely<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or she has a miscarriage">⚓</a> but there is no serious injury, the offender must be fined whatever the woman’s husband demands and the court allows. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_23"><sup>23</sup>But if there is serious injury, you are to take life for life, </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_24"><sup>24</sup>eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_25"><sup>25</sup>burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_26"> <sup>26</sup>“An owner who hits a male or female slave in the eye and destroys it must let the slave go free to compensate for the eye. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_27"><sup>27</sup>And an owner who knocks out the tooth of a male or female slave must let the slave go free to compensate for the tooth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_28"> <sup>28</sup>“If a bull gores a man or woman to death, the bull is to be stoned to death, and its meat must not be eaten. But the owner of the bull will not be held responsible. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_29"><sup>29</sup>If, however, the bull has had the habit of goring and the owner has been warned but has not kept it penned up and it kills a man or woman, the bull is to be stoned and its owner also is to be put to death. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_30"><sup>30</sup>However, if payment is demanded, the owner may redeem his life by the payment of whatever is demanded. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_31"><sup>31</sup>This law also applies if the bull gores a son or daughter. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_32"><sup>32</sup>If the bull gores a male or female slave, the owner must pay thirty shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 12 ounces or about 345 grams">⚓</a> of silver to the master of the slave, and the bull is to be stoned to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_33"> <sup>33</sup>“If anyone uncovers a pit or digs one and fails to cover it and an ox or a donkey falls into it, </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_34"><sup>34</sup>the one who opened the pit must pay the owner for the loss and take the dead animal in exchange. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_21_35"> <sup>35</sup>“If anyone’s bull injures someone else’s bull and it dies, the two parties are to sell the live one and divide both the money and the dead animal equally. </span>
<span class="verse xu_21_36"><sup>36</sup>However, if it was known that the bull had the habit of goring, yet the owner did not keep it penned up, the owner must pay, animal for animal, and take the dead animal in exchange. <br/></span>
