---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>Laws of Justice and Mercy </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>“Do not spread false reports. Do not help a guilty person by being a malicious witness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_2"> <sup>2</sup>“Do not follow the crowd in doing wrong. When you give testimony in a lawsuit, do not pervert justice by siding with the crowd, </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_3"><sup>3</sup>and do not show favoritism to a poor person in a lawsuit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_4"> <sup>4</sup>“If you come across your enemy’s ox or donkey wandering off, be sure to return it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_5"><sup>5</sup>If you see the donkey of someone who hates you fallen down under its load, do not leave it there; be sure you help them with it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Do not deny justice to your poor people in their lawsuits. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_7"><sup>7</sup>Have nothing to do with a false charge and do not put an innocent or honest person to death, for I will not acquit the guilty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Do not accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds those who see and twists the words of the innocent. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Do not oppress a foreigner; you yourselves know how it feels to be foreigners, because you were foreigners in Egypt. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Sabbath Laws </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_23_10"> <sup>10</sup>“For six years you are to sow your fields and harvest the crops, </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_11"><sup>11</sup>but during the seventh year let the land lie unplowed and unused. Then the poor among your people may get food from it, and the wild animals may eat what is left. Do the same with your vineyard and your olive grove. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Six days do your work, but on the seventh day do not work, so that your ox and your donkey may rest, and so that the slave born in your household and the foreigner living among you may be refreshed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_13"> <sup>13</sup>“Be careful to do everything I have said to you. Do not invoke the names of other gods; do not let them be heard on your lips. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Three Annual Festivals </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_23_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Three times a year you are to celebrate a festival to me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Celebrate the Festival of Unleavened Bread; for seven days eat bread made without yeast, as I commanded you. Do this at the appointed time in the month of Aviv, for in that month you came out of Egypt. <br/> “No one is to appear before me empty-handed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_16"> <sup>16</sup>“Celebrate the Festival of Harvest with the firstfruits of the crops you sow in your field. <br/> “Celebrate the Festival of Ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in your crops from the field. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Three times a year all the men are to appear before the Sovereign Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Do not offer the blood of a sacrifice to me along with anything containing yeast. <br/> “The fat of my festival offerings must not be kept until morning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Bring the best of the firstfruits of your soil to the house of the Lord your God. <br/> “Do not cook a young goat in its mother’s milk. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Angel to Prepare the Way </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_23_20"> <sup>20</sup>“See, I am sending an angel ahead of you to guard you along the way and to bring you to the place I have prepared. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_21"><sup>21</sup>Pay attention to him and listen to what he says. Do not rebel against him; he will not forgive your rebellion, since my Name is in him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_22"><sup>22</sup>If you listen carefully to what he says and do all that I say, I will be an enemy to your enemies and will oppose those who oppose you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_23"><sup>23</sup>My angel will go ahead of you and bring you into the land of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Canaanites, Hivites and Jebusites, and I will wipe them out. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_24"><sup>24</sup>Do not bow down before their gods or worship them or follow their practices. You must demolish them and break their sacred stones to pieces. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_25"><sup>25</sup>Worship the Lord your God, and his blessing will be on your food and water. I will take away sickness from among you, </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_26"><sup>26</sup>and none will miscarry or be barren in your land. I will give you a full life span. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_27"> <sup>27</sup>“I will send my terror ahead of you and throw into confusion every nation you encounter. I will make all your enemies turn their backs and run. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_28"><sup>28</sup>I will send the hornet ahead of you to drive the Hivites, Canaanites and Hittites out of your way. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_29"><sup>29</sup>But I will not drive them out in a single year, because the land would become desolate and the wild animals too numerous for you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_30"><sup>30</sup>Little by little I will drive them out before you, until you have increased enough to take possession of the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_23_31"> <sup>31</sup>“I will establish your borders from the Red Sea<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a> to the Mediterranean Sea,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew to the Sea of the Philistines">⚓</a> and from the desert to the Euphrates River. I will give into your hands the people who live in the land, and you will drive them out before you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_32"><sup>32</sup>Do not make a covenant with them or with their gods. </span>
<span class="verse xu_23_33"><sup>33</sup>Do not let them live in your land or they will cause you to sin against me, because the worship of their gods will certainly be a snare to you.” <br/></span>
