---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\26.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>26</h1><h3>The Tabernacle </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_26_1"> <sup>1</sup>“Make the tabernacle with ten curtains of finely twisted linen and blue, purple and scarlet yarn, with cherubim woven into them by a skilled worker. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_2"><sup>2</sup>All the curtains are to be the same size—twenty-eight cubits long and four cubits wide.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 42 feet long and 6 feet wide or about 13 meters long and 1.8 meters wide">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_3"><sup>3</sup>Join five of the curtains together, and do the same with the other five. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_4"><sup>4</sup>Make loops of blue material along the edge of the end curtain in one set, and do the same with the end curtain in the other set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_5"><sup>5</sup>Make fifty loops on one curtain and fifty loops on the end curtain of the other set, with the loops opposite each other. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_6"><sup>6</sup>Then make fifty gold clasps and use them to fasten the curtains together so that the tabernacle is a unit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Make curtains of goat hair for the tent over the tabernacle—eleven altogether. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_8"><sup>8</sup>All eleven curtains are to be the same size—thirty cubits long and four cubits wide.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 45 feet long and 6 feet wide or about 13.5 meters long and 1.8 meters wide">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_9"><sup>9</sup>Join five of the curtains together into one set and the other six into another set. Fold the sixth curtain double at the front of the tent. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_10"><sup>10</sup>Make fifty loops along the edge of the end curtain in one set and also along the edge of the end curtain in the other set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_11"><sup>11</sup>Then make fifty bronze clasps and put them in the loops to fasten the tent together as a unit. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_12"><sup>12</sup>As for the additional length of the tent curtains, the half curtain that is left over is to hang down at the rear of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_13"><sup>13</sup>The tent curtains will be a cubit<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 18 inches or about 45 centimeters">⚓</a> longer on both sides; what is left will hang over the sides of the tabernacle so as to cover it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_14"><sup>14</sup>Make for the tent a covering of ram skins dyed red, and over that a covering of the other durable leather.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Possibly the hides of large aquatic mammals (see 25:5)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Make upright frames of acacia wood for the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_16"><sup>16</sup>Each frame is to be ten cubits long and a cubit and a half wide,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 15 feet long and 2 1/4 feet wide or about 4.5 meters long and 68 centimeters wide">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_17"><sup>17</sup>with two projections set parallel to each other. Make all the frames of the tabernacle in this way. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_18"><sup>18</sup>Make twenty frames for the south side of the tabernacle </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_19"><sup>19</sup>and make forty silver bases to go under them—two bases for each frame, one under each projection. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_20"><sup>20</sup>For the other side, the north side of the tabernacle, make twenty frames </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_21"><sup>21</sup>and forty silver bases—two under each frame. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_22"><sup>22</sup>Make six frames for the far end, that is, the west end of the tabernacle, </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_23"><sup>23</sup>and make two frames for the corners at the far end. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_24"><sup>24</sup>At these two corners they must be double from the bottom all the way to the top and fitted into a single ring; both shall be like that. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_25"><sup>25</sup>So there will be eight frames and sixteen silver bases—two under each frame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_26"> <sup>26</sup>“Also make crossbars of acacia wood: five for the frames on one side of the tabernacle, </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_27"><sup>27</sup>five for those on the other side, and five for the frames on the west, at the far end of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_28"><sup>28</sup>The center crossbar is to extend from end to end at the middle of the frames. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_29"><sup>29</sup>Overlay the frames with gold and make gold rings to hold the crossbars. Also overlay the crossbars with gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_30"> <sup>30</sup>“Set up the tabernacle according to the plan shown you on the mountain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_31"> <sup>31</sup>“Make a curtain of blue, purple and scarlet yarn and finely twisted linen, with cherubim woven into it by a skilled worker. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_32"><sup>32</sup>Hang it with gold hooks on four posts of acacia wood overlaid with gold and standing on four silver bases. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_33"><sup>33</sup>Hang the curtain from the clasps and place the ark of the covenant law behind the curtain. The curtain will separate the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_34"><sup>34</sup>Put the atonement cover on the ark of the covenant law in the Most Holy Place. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_35"><sup>35</sup>Place the table outside the curtain on the north side of the tabernacle and put the lampstand opposite it on the south side. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_26_36"> <sup>36</sup>“For the entrance to the tent make a curtain of blue, purple and scarlet yarn and finely twisted linen—the work of an embroiderer. </span>
<span class="verse xu_26_37"><sup>37</sup>Make gold hooks for this curtain and five posts of acacia wood overlaid with gold. And cast five bronze bases for them. <br/></span>
