---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\28.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>28</h1><h3>The Priestly Garments </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_28_1"> <sup>1</sup>“Have Aaron your brother brought to you from among the Israelites, along with his sons Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, so they may serve me as priests. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_2"><sup>2</sup>Make sacred garments for your brother Aaron to give him dignity and honor. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_3"><sup>3</sup>Tell all the skilled workers to whom I have given wisdom in such matters that they are to make garments for Aaron, for his consecration, so he may serve me as priest. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_4"><sup>4</sup>These are the garments they are to make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a woven tunic, a turban and a sash. They are to make these sacred garments for your brother Aaron and his sons, so they may serve me as priests. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_5"><sup>5</sup>Have them use gold, and blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and fine linen. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Ephod </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_28_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Make the ephod of gold, and of blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and of finely twisted linen—the work of skilled hands. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_7"><sup>7</sup>It is to have two shoulder pieces attached to two of its corners, so it can be fastened. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_8"><sup>8</sup>Its skillfully woven waistband is to be like it—of one piece with the ephod and made with gold, and with blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and with finely twisted linen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_28_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Take two onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_10"><sup>10</sup>in the order of their birth—six names on one stone and the remaining six on the other. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_11"><sup>11</sup>Engrave the names of the sons of Israel on the two stones the way a gem cutter engraves a seal. Then mount the stones in gold filigree settings </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_12"><sup>12</sup>and fasten them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as memorial stones for the sons of Israel. Aaron is to bear the names on his shoulders as a memorial before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_13"><sup>13</sup>Make gold filigree settings </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_14"><sup>14</sup>and two braided chains of pure gold, like a rope, and attach the chains to the settings. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Breastpiece </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_28_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Fashion a breastpiece for making decisions—the work of skilled hands. Make it like the ephod: of gold, and of blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and of finely twisted linen. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_16"><sup>16</sup>It is to be square—a span<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 9 inches or about 23 centimeters">⚓</a> long and a span wide—and folded double. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_17"><sup>17</sup>Then mount four rows of precious stones on it. The first row shall be carnelian, chrysolite and beryl; </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_18"><sup>18</sup>the second row shall be turquoise, lapis lazuli and emerald; </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_19"><sup>19</sup>the third row shall be jacinth, agate and amethyst; </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_20"><sup>20</sup>the fourth row shall be topaz, onyx and jasper.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The precise identification of some of these precious stones is uncertain.">⚓</a> Mount them in gold filigree settings. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_21"><sup>21</sup>There are to be twelve stones, one for each of the names of the sons of Israel, each engraved like a seal with the name of one of the twelve tribes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_28_22"> <sup>22</sup>“For the breastpiece make braided chains of pure gold, like a rope. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_23"><sup>23</sup>Make two gold rings for it and fasten them to two corners of the breastpiece. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_24"><sup>24</sup>Fasten the two gold chains to the rings at the corners of the breastpiece, </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_25"><sup>25</sup>and the other ends of the chains to the two settings, attaching them to the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_26"><sup>26</sup>Make two gold rings and attach them to the other two corners of the breastpiece on the inside edge next to the ephod. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_27"><sup>27</sup>Make two more gold rings and attach them to the bottom of the shoulder pieces on the front of the ephod, close to the seam just above the waistband of the ephod. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_28"><sup>28</sup>The rings of the breastpiece are to be tied to the rings of the ephod with blue cord, connecting it to the waistband, so that the breastpiece will not swing out from the ephod. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_28_29"> <sup>29</sup>“Whenever Aaron enters the Holy Place, he will bear the names of the sons of Israel over his heart on the breastpiece of decision as a continuing memorial before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_30"><sup>30</sup>Also put the Urim and the Thummim in the breastpiece, so they may be over Aaron’s heart whenever he enters the presence of the Lord. Thus Aaron will always bear the means of making decisions for the Israelites over his heart before the Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Other Priestly Garments </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_28_31"> <sup>31</sup>“Make the robe of the ephod entirely of blue cloth, </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_32"><sup>32</sup>with an opening for the head in its center. There shall be a woven edge like a collar<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> around this opening, so that it will not tear. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_33"><sup>33</sup>Make pomegranates of blue, purple and scarlet yarn around the hem of the robe, with gold bells between them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_34"><sup>34</sup>The gold bells and the pomegranates are to alternate around the hem of the robe. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_35"><sup>35</sup>Aaron must wear it when he ministers. The sound of the bells will be heard when he enters the Holy Place before the Lord and when he comes out, so that he will not die. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_28_36"> <sup>36</sup>“Make a plate of pure gold and engrave on it as on a seal: holy to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_37"><sup>37</sup>Fasten a blue cord to it to attach it to the turban; it is to be on the front of the turban. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_38"><sup>38</sup>It will be on Aaron’s forehead, and he will bear the guilt involved in the sacred gifts the Israelites consecrate, whatever their gifts may be. It will be on Aaron’s forehead continually so that they will be acceptable to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_28_39"> <sup>39</sup>“Weave the tunic of fine linen and make the turban of fine linen. The sash is to be the work of an embroiderer. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_40"><sup>40</sup>Make tunics, sashes and caps for Aaron’s sons to give them dignity and honor. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_41"><sup>41</sup>After you put these clothes on your brother Aaron and his sons, anoint and ordain them. Consecrate them so they may serve me as priests. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_28_42"> <sup>42</sup>“Make linen undergarments as a covering for the body, reaching from the waist to the thigh. </span>
<span class="verse xu_28_43"><sup>43</sup>Aaron and his sons must wear them whenever they enter the tent of meeting or approach the altar to minister in the Holy Place, so that they will not incur guilt and die. <br/> “This is to be a lasting ordinance for Aaron and his descendants. <br/></span>
