---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\30.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1><h3>The Altar of Incense </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_30_1"> <sup>1</sup>“Make an altar of acacia wood for burning incense. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_2"><sup>2</sup>It is to be square, a cubit long and a cubit wide, and two cubits high<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 1/2 feet long and wide and 3 feet high or about 45 centimeters long and wide and 90 centimeters high">⚓</a> —its horns of one piece with it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_3"><sup>3</sup>Overlay the top and all the sides and the horns with pure gold, and make a gold molding around it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_4"><sup>4</sup>Make two gold rings for the altar below the molding—two on each of the opposite sides—to hold the poles used to carry it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_5"><sup>5</sup>Make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_6"><sup>6</sup>Put the altar in front of the curtain that shields the ark of the covenant law—before the atonement cover that is over the tablets of the covenant law—where I will meet with you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_30_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Aaron must burn fragrant incense on the altar every morning when he tends the lamps. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_8"><sup>8</sup>He must burn incense again when he lights the lamps at twilight so incense will burn regularly before the Lord for the generations to come. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_9"><sup>9</sup>Do not offer on this altar any other incense or any burnt offering or grain offering, and do not pour a drink offering on it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_10"><sup>10</sup>Once a year Aaron shall make atonement on its horns. This annual atonement must be made with the blood of the atoning sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering">⚓</a> for the generations to come. It is most holy to the Lord.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Atonement Money </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_30_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_12"><sup>12</sup>“When you take a census of the Israelites to count them, each one must pay the Lord a ransom for his life at the time he is counted. Then no plague will come on them when you number them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_13"><sup>13</sup>Each one who crosses over to those already counted is to give a half shekel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1/5 ounce or about 5.8 grams; also in verse 15">⚓</a> according to the sanctuary shekel, which weighs twenty gerahs. This half shekel is an offering to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_14"><sup>14</sup>All who cross over, those twenty years old or more, are to give an offering to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_15"><sup>15</sup>The rich are not to give more than a half shekel and the poor are not to give less when you make the offering to the Lord to atone for your lives. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_16"><sup>16</sup>Receive the atonement money from the Israelites and use it for the service of the tent of meeting. It will be a memorial for the Israelites before the Lord, making atonement for your lives.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Basin for Washing </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_30_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_18"><sup>18</sup>“Make a bronze basin, with its bronze stand, for washing. Place it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_19"><sup>19</sup>Aaron and his sons are to wash their hands and feet with water from it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_20"><sup>20</sup>Whenever they enter the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water so that they will not die. Also, when they approach the altar to minister by presenting a food offering to the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_21"><sup>21</sup>they shall wash their hands and feet so that they will not die. This is to be a lasting ordinance for Aaron and his descendants for the generations to come.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Anointing Oil </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_30_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_23"><sup>23</sup>“Take the following fine spices: 500 shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 12 1/2 pounds or about 5.8 kilograms; also in verse 24">⚓</a> of liquid myrrh, half as much (that is, 250 shekels) of fragrant cinnamon, 250 shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 6 1/4 pounds or about 2.9 kilograms">⚓</a> of fragrant calamus, </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_24"><sup>24</sup>500 shekels of cassia—all according to the sanctuary shekel—and a hin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 1 gallon or about 3.8 liters">⚓</a> of olive oil. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_25"><sup>25</sup>Make these into a sacred anointing oil, a fragrant blend, the work of a perfumer. It will be the sacred anointing oil. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_26"><sup>26</sup>Then use it to anoint the tent of meeting, the ark of the covenant law, </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_27"><sup>27</sup>the table and all its articles, the lampstand and its accessories, the altar of incense, </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_28"><sup>28</sup>the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and the basin with its stand. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_29"><sup>29</sup>You shall consecrate them so they will be most holy, and whatever touches them will be holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_30_30"> <sup>30</sup>“Anoint Aaron and his sons and consecrate them so they may serve me as priests. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_31"><sup>31</sup>Say to the Israelites, ‘This is to be my sacred anointing oil for the generations to come. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_32"><sup>32</sup>Do not pour it on anyone else’s body and do not make any other oil using the same formula. It is sacred, and you are to consider it sacred. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_33"><sup>33</sup>Whoever makes perfume like it and puts it on anyone other than a priest must be cut off from their people.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Incense </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_30_34"> <sup>34</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Take fragrant spices—gum resin, onycha and galbanum—and pure frankincense, all in equal amounts, </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_35"><sup>35</sup>and make a fragrant blend of incense, the work of a perfumer. It is to be salted and pure and sacred. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_36"><sup>36</sup>Grind some of it to powder and place it in front of the ark of the covenant law in the tent of meeting, where I will meet with you. It shall be most holy to you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_37"><sup>37</sup>Do not make any incense with this formula for yourselves; consider it holy to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_30_38"><sup>38</sup>Whoever makes incense like it to enjoy its fragrance must be cut off from their people.” <br/></span>
