---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\31.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>31</h1><h3>Bezalel and Oholiab </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_31_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_2"><sup>2</sup>“See, I have chosen Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_3"><sup>3</sup>and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, with understanding, with knowledge and with all kinds of skills— </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_4"><sup>4</sup>to make artistic designs for work in gold, silver and bronze, </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_5"><sup>5</sup>to cut and set stones, to work in wood, and to engage in all kinds of crafts. </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_6"><sup>6</sup>Moreover, I have appointed Oholiab son of Ahisamak, of the tribe of Dan, to help him. Also I have given ability to all the skilled workers to make everything I have commanded you: </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_7"><sup>7</sup>the tent of meeting, the ark of the covenant law with the atonement cover on it, and all the other furnishings of the tent— </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_8"><sup>8</sup>the table and its articles, the pure gold lampstand and all its accessories, the altar of incense, </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_9"><sup>9</sup>the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, the basin with its stand— </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_10"><sup>10</sup>and also the woven garments, both the sacred garments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons when they serve as priests, </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_11"><sup>11</sup>and the anointing oil and fragrant incense for the Holy Place. They are to make them just as I commanded you.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Sabbath </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_31_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_13"><sup>13</sup>“Say to the Israelites, ‘You must observe my Sabbaths. This will be a sign between me and you for the generations to come, so you may know that I am the Lord, who makes you holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_31_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘Observe the Sabbath, because it is holy to you. Anyone who desecrates it is to be put to death; those who do any work on that day must be cut off from their people. </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_15"><sup>15</sup>For six days work is to be done, but the seventh day is a day of sabbath rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day is to be put to death. </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_16"><sup>16</sup>The Israelites are to observe the Sabbath, celebrating it for the generations to come as a lasting covenant. </span>
<span class="verse xu_31_17"><sup>17</sup>It will be a sign between me and the Israelites forever, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_31_18"> <sup>18</sup>When the Lord finished speaking to Moses on Mount Sinai, he gave him the two tablets of the covenant law, the tablets of stone inscribed by the finger of God. <br/></span>
