---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\33.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>33</h1></div>
<span class="verse xu_33_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Leave this place, you and the people you brought up out of Egypt, and go up to the land I promised on oath to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, saying, ‘I will give it to your descendants.’ </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_2"><sup>2</sup>I will send an angel before you and drive out the Canaanites, Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_3"><sup>3</sup>Go up to the land flowing with milk and honey. But I will not go with you, because you are a stiff-necked people and I might destroy you on the way.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_33_4"> <sup>4</sup>When the people heard these distressing words, they began to mourn and no one put on any ornaments. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_5"><sup>5</sup>For the Lord had said to Moses, “Tell the Israelites, ‘You are a stiff-necked people. If I were to go with you even for a moment, I might destroy you. Now take off your ornaments and I will decide what to do with you.’ ” </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_6"><sup>6</sup>So the Israelites stripped off their ornaments at Mount Horeb. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Tent of Meeting </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_33_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now Moses used to take a tent and pitch it outside the camp some distance away, calling it the “tent of meeting.” Anyone inquiring of the Lord would go to the tent of meeting outside the camp. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_8"><sup>8</sup>And whenever Moses went out to the tent, all the people rose and stood at the entrances to their tents, watching Moses until he entered the tent. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_9"><sup>9</sup>As Moses went into the tent, the pillar of cloud would come down and stay at the entrance, while the Lord spoke with Moses. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_10"><sup>10</sup>Whenever the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance to the tent, they all stood and worshiped, each at the entrance to their tent. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_11"><sup>11</sup>The Lord would speak to Moses face to face, as one speaks to a friend. Then Moses would return to the camp, but his young aide Joshua son of Nun did not leave the tent. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Moses and the Glory of the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_33_12"> <sup>12</sup>Moses said to the Lord, “You have been telling me, ‘Lead these people,’ but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. You have said, ‘I know you by name and you have found favor with me.’ </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_13"><sup>13</sup>If you are pleased with me, teach me your ways so I may know you and continue to find favor with you. Remember that this nation is your people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_33_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Lord replied, “My Presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_33_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Moses said to him, “If your Presence does not go with us, do not send us up from here. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_16"><sup>16</sup>How will anyone know that you are pleased with me and with your people unless you go with us? What else will distinguish me and your people from all the other people on the face of the earth?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_33_17"> <sup>17</sup>And the Lord said to Moses, “I will do the very thing you have asked, because I am pleased with you and I know you by name.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_33_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Moses said, “Now show me your glory.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_33_19"> <sup>19</sup>And the Lord said, “I will cause all my goodness to pass in front of you, and I will proclaim my name, the Lord, in your presence. I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_20"><sup>20</sup>But,” he said, “you cannot see my face, for no one may see me and live.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_33_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then the Lord said, “There is a place near me where you may stand on a rock. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_22"><sup>22</sup>When my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft in the rock and cover you with my hand until I have passed by. </span>
<span class="verse xu_33_23"><sup>23</sup>Then I will remove my hand and you will see my back; but my face must not be seen.” <br/></span>
