---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\34.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>34</h1><h3>The New Stone Tablets </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_34_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “Chisel out two stone tablets like the first ones, and I will write on them the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_2"><sup>2</sup>Be ready in the morning, and then come up on Mount Sinai. Present yourself to me there on top of the mountain. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_3"><sup>3</sup>No one is to come with you or be seen anywhere on the mountain; not even the flocks and herds may graze in front of the mountain.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Moses chiseled out two stone tablets like the first ones and went up Mount Sinai early in the morning, as the Lord had commanded him; and he carried the two stone tablets in his hands. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_5"><sup>5</sup>Then the Lord came down in the cloud and stood there with him and proclaimed his name, the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_6"><sup>6</sup>And he passed in front of Moses, proclaiming, “The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_7"><sup>7</sup>maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion and sin. Yet he does not leave the guilty unpunished; he punishes the children and their children for the sin of the parents to the third and fourth generation.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_8"> <sup>8</sup>Moses bowed to the ground at once and worshiped. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_9"><sup>9</sup>“Lord,” he said, “if I have found favor in your eyes, then let the Lord go with us. Although this is a stiff-necked people, forgive our wickedness and our sin, and take us as your inheritance.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then the Lord said: “I am making a covenant with you. Before all your people I will do wonders never before done in any nation in all the world. The people you live among will see how awesome is the work that I, the Lord, will do for you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_11"><sup>11</sup>Obey what I command you today. I will drive out before you the Amorites, Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_12"><sup>12</sup>Be careful not to make a treaty with those who live in the land where you are going, or they will be a snare among you. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_13"><sup>13</sup>Break down their altars, smash their sacred stones and cut down their Asherah poles.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, wooden symbols of the goddess Asherah">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_14"><sup>14</sup>Do not worship any other god, for the Lord, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Be careful not to make a treaty with those who live in the land; for when they prostitute themselves to their gods and sacrifice to them, they will invite you and you will eat their sacrifices. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_16"><sup>16</sup>And when you choose some of their daughters as wives for your sons and those daughters prostitute themselves to their gods, they will lead your sons to do the same. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Do not make any idols. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Celebrate the Festival of Unleavened Bread. For seven days eat bread made without yeast, as I commanded you. Do this at the appointed time in the month of Aviv, for in that month you came out of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_19"> <sup>19</sup>“The first offspring of every womb belongs to me, including all the firstborn males of your livestock, whether from herd or flock. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_20"><sup>20</sup>Redeem the firstborn donkey with a lamb, but if you do not redeem it, break its neck. Redeem all your firstborn sons. <br/> “No one is to appear before me empty-handed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_21"> <sup>21</sup>“Six days you shall labor, but on the seventh day you shall rest; even during the plowing season and harvest you must rest. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_22"> <sup>22</sup>“Celebrate the Festival of Weeks with the firstfruits of the wheat harvest, and the Festival of Ingathering at the turn of the year.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, in the autumn">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_23"><sup>23</sup>Three times a year all your men are to appear before the Sovereign Lord, the God of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_24"><sup>24</sup>I will drive out nations before you and enlarge your territory, and no one will covet your land when you go up three times each year to appear before the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_25"> <sup>25</sup>“Do not offer the blood of a sacrifice to me along with anything containing yeast, and do not let any of the sacrifice from the Passover Festival remain until morning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_26"> <sup>26</sup>“Bring the best of the firstfruits of your soil to the house of the Lord your God. <br/> “Do not cook a young goat in its mother’s milk.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_27"> <sup>27</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Write down these words, for in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_28"><sup>28</sup>Moses was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights without eating bread or drinking water. And he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant—the Ten Commandments. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Radiant Face of Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_34_29"> <sup>29</sup>When Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the covenant law in his hands, he was not aware that his face was radiant because he had spoken with the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_30"><sup>30</sup>When Aaron and all the Israelites saw Moses, his face was radiant, and they were afraid to come near him. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_31"><sup>31</sup>But Moses called to them; so Aaron and all the leaders of the community came back to him, and he spoke to them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_32"><sup>32</sup>Afterward all the Israelites came near him, and he gave them all the commands the Lord had given him on Mount Sinai. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_34_33"> <sup>33</sup>When Moses finished speaking to them, he put a veil over his face. </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_34"><sup>34</sup>But whenever he entered the Lord’s presence to speak with him, he removed the veil until he came out. And when he came out and told the Israelites what he had been commanded, </span>
<span class="verse xu_34_35"><sup>35</sup>they saw that his face was radiant. Then Moses would put the veil back over his face until he went in to speak with the Lord. <br/></span>
