---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\35.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>35</h1><h3>Sabbath Regulations </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_35_1"> <sup>1</sup>Moses assembled the whole Israelite community and said to them, “These are the things the Lord has commanded you to do: </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_2"><sup>2</sup>For six days, work is to be done, but the seventh day shall be your holy day, a day of sabbath rest to the Lord. Whoever does any work on it is to be put to death. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_3"><sup>3</sup>Do not light a fire in any of your dwellings on the Sabbath day.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Materials for the Tabernacle </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_35_4"> <sup>4</sup>Moses said to the whole Israelite community, “This is what the Lord has commanded: </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_5"><sup>5</sup>From what you have, take an offering for the Lord. Everyone who is willing is to bring to the Lord an offering of gold, silver and bronze; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_6"><sup>6</sup>blue, purple and scarlet yarn and fine linen; goat hair; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_7"><sup>7</sup>ram skins dyed red and another type of durable leather<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Possibly the hides of large aquatic mammals; also in verse 23">⚓</a> ; acacia wood; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_8"><sup>8</sup>olive oil for the light; spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_9"><sup>9</sup>and onyx stones and other gems to be mounted on the ephod and breastpiece. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_35_10"> <sup>10</sup>“All who are skilled among you are to come and make everything the Lord has commanded: </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_11"><sup>11</sup>the tabernacle with its tent and its covering, clasps, frames, crossbars, posts and bases; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_12"><sup>12</sup>the ark with its poles and the atonement cover and the curtain that shields it; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_13"><sup>13</sup>the table with its poles and all its articles and the bread of the Presence; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_14"><sup>14</sup>the lampstand that is for light with its accessories, lamps and oil for the light; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_15"><sup>15</sup>the altar of incense with its poles, the anointing oil and the fragrant incense; the curtain for the doorway at the entrance to the tabernacle; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_16"><sup>16</sup>the altar of burnt offering with its bronze grating, its poles and all its utensils; the bronze basin with its stand; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_17"><sup>17</sup>the curtains of the courtyard with its posts and bases, and the curtain for the entrance to the courtyard; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_18"><sup>18</sup>the tent pegs for the tabernacle and for the courtyard, and their ropes; </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_19"><sup>19</sup>the woven garments worn for ministering in the sanctuary—both the sacred garments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons when they serve as priests.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_35_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then the whole Israelite community withdrew from Moses’ presence, </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_21"><sup>21</sup>and everyone who was willing and whose heart moved them came and brought an offering to the Lord for the work on the tent of meeting, for all its service, and for the sacred garments. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_22"><sup>22</sup>All who were willing, men and women alike, came and brought gold jewelry of all kinds: brooches, earrings, rings and ornaments. They all presented their gold as a wave offering to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_23"><sup>23</sup>Everyone who had blue, purple or scarlet yarn or fine linen, or goat hair, ram skins dyed red or the other durable leather brought them. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_24"><sup>24</sup>Those presenting an offering of silver or bronze brought it as an offering to the Lord, and everyone who had acacia wood for any part of the work brought it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_25"><sup>25</sup>Every skilled woman spun with her hands and brought what she had spun—blue, purple or scarlet yarn or fine linen. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_26"><sup>26</sup>And all the women who were willing and had the skill spun the goat hair. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_27"><sup>27</sup>The leaders brought onyx stones and other gems to be mounted on the ephod and breastpiece. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_28"><sup>28</sup>They also brought spices and olive oil for the light and for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_29"><sup>29</sup>All the Israelite men and women who were willing brought to the Lord freewill offerings for all the work the Lord through Moses had commanded them to do. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_35_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then Moses said to the Israelites, “See, the Lord has chosen Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_31"><sup>31</sup>and he has filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, with understanding, with knowledge and with all kinds of skills— </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_32"><sup>32</sup>to make artistic designs for work in gold, silver and bronze, </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_33"><sup>33</sup>to cut and set stones, to work in wood and to engage in all kinds of artistic crafts. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_34"><sup>34</sup>And he has given both him and Oholiab son of Ahisamak, of the tribe of Dan, the ability to teach others. </span>
<span class="verse xu_35_35"><sup>35</sup>He has filled them with skill to do all kinds of work as engravers, designers, embroiderers in blue, purple and scarlet yarn and fine linen, and weavers—all of them skilled workers and designers. <br/></span>
