---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\36.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>36</h1><h3>Bezalel and Oholiab </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_36_1"> <sup>1</sup>So Bezalel, Oholiab and every skilled person to whom the Lord has given skill and ability to know how to carry out all the work of constructing the sanctuary are to do the work just as the Lord has commanded.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then Moses summoned Bezalel and Oholiab and every skilled person to whom the Lord had given ability and who was willing to come and do the work. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_3"><sup>3</sup>They received from Moses all the offerings the Israelites had brought to carry out the work of constructing the sanctuary. And the people continued to bring freewill offerings morning after morning. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_4"><sup>4</sup>So all the skilled workers who were doing all the work on the sanctuary left what they were doing </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_5"><sup>5</sup>and said to Moses, “The people are bringing more than enough for doing the work the Lord commanded to be done.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then Moses gave an order and they sent this word throughout the camp: “No man or woman is to make anything else as an offering for the sanctuary.” And so the people were restrained from bringing more, </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_7"><sup>7</sup>because what they already had was more than enough to do all the work. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Tabernacle </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_36_8"> <sup>8</sup>All those who were skilled among the workers made the tabernacle with ten curtains of finely twisted linen and blue, purple and scarlet yarn, with cherubim woven into them by expert hands. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_9"><sup>9</sup>All the curtains were the same size—twenty-eight cubits long and four cubits wide.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 42 feet long and 6 feet wide or about 13 meters long and 1.8 meters wide">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_10"><sup>10</sup>They joined five of the curtains together and did the same with the other five. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_11"><sup>11</sup>Then they made loops of blue material along the edge of the end curtain in one set, and the same was done with the end curtain in the other set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_12"><sup>12</sup>They also made fifty loops on one curtain and fifty loops on the end curtain of the other set, with the loops opposite each other. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_13"><sup>13</sup>Then they made fifty gold clasps and used them to fasten the two sets of curtains together so that the tabernacle was a unit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_14"> <sup>14</sup>They made curtains of goat hair for the tent over the tabernacle—eleven altogether. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_15"><sup>15</sup>All eleven curtains were the same size—thirty cubits long and four cubits wide.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 45 feet long and 6 feet wide or about 14 meters long and 1.8 meters wide">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_16"><sup>16</sup>They joined five of the curtains into one set and the other six into another set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_17"><sup>17</sup>Then they made fifty loops along the edge of the end curtain in one set and also along the edge of the end curtain in the other set. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_18"><sup>18</sup>They made fifty bronze clasps to fasten the tent together as a unit. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_19"><sup>19</sup>Then they made for the tent a covering of ram skins dyed red, and over that a covering of the other durable leather.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Possibly the hides of large aquatic mammals (see 35:7)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_20"> <sup>20</sup>They made upright frames of acacia wood for the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_21"><sup>21</sup>Each frame was ten cubits long and a cubit and a half wide,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 15 feet long and 2 1/4 feet wide or about 4.5 meters long and 68 centimeters wide">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_22"><sup>22</sup>with two projections set parallel to each other. They made all the frames of the tabernacle in this way. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_23"><sup>23</sup>They made twenty frames for the south side of the tabernacle </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_24"><sup>24</sup>and made forty silver bases to go under them—two bases for each frame, one under each projection. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_25"><sup>25</sup>For the other side, the north side of the tabernacle, they made twenty frames </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_26"><sup>26</sup>and forty silver bases—two under each frame. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_27"><sup>27</sup>They made six frames for the far end, that is, the west end of the tabernacle, </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_28"><sup>28</sup>and two frames were made for the corners of the tabernacle at the far end. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_29"><sup>29</sup>At these two corners the frames were double from the bottom all the way to the top and fitted into a single ring; both were made alike. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_30"><sup>30</sup>So there were eight frames and sixteen silver bases—two under each frame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_31"> <sup>31</sup>They also made crossbars of acacia wood: five for the frames on one side of the tabernacle, </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_32"><sup>32</sup>five for those on the other side, and five for the frames on the west, at the far end of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_33"><sup>33</sup>They made the center crossbar so that it extended from end to end at the middle of the frames. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_34"><sup>34</sup>They overlaid the frames with gold and made gold rings to hold the crossbars. They also overlaid the crossbars with gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_36_35"> <sup>35</sup>They made the curtain of blue, purple and scarlet yarn and finely twisted linen, with cherubim woven into it by a skilled worker. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_36"><sup>36</sup>They made four posts of acacia wood for it and overlaid them with gold. They made gold hooks for them and cast their four silver bases. </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_37"><sup>37</sup>For the entrance to the tent they made a curtain of blue, purple and scarlet yarn and finely twisted linen—the work of an embroiderer; </span>
<span class="verse xu_36_38"><sup>38</sup>and they made five posts with hooks for them. They overlaid the tops of the posts and their bands with gold and made their five bases of bronze. <br/></span>
