---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\39.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>39</h1><h3>The Priestly Garments </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_39_1"> <sup>1</sup>From the blue, purple and scarlet yarn they made woven garments for ministering in the sanctuary. They also made sacred garments for Aaron, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Ephod </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_39_2"> <sup>2</sup>They<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or He ; also in verses 7, 8 and 22">⚓</a> made the ephod of gold, and of blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and of finely twisted linen. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_3"><sup>3</sup>They hammered out thin sheets of gold and cut strands to be worked into the blue, purple and scarlet yarn and fine linen—the work of skilled hands. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_4"><sup>4</sup>They made shoulder pieces for the ephod, which were attached to two of its corners, so it could be fastened. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_5"><sup>5</sup>Its skillfully woven waistband was like it—of one piece with the ephod and made with gold, and with blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and with finely twisted linen, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_39_6"> <sup>6</sup>They mounted the onyx stones in gold filigree settings and engraved them like a seal with the names of the sons of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_7"><sup>7</sup>Then they fastened them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as memorial stones for the sons of Israel, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Breastpiece </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_39_8"> <sup>8</sup>They fashioned the breastpiece—the work of a skilled craftsman. They made it like the ephod: of gold, and of blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and of finely twisted linen. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_9"><sup>9</sup>It was square—a span<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 9 inches or about 23 centimeters">⚓</a> long and a span wide—and folded double. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_10"><sup>10</sup>Then they mounted four rows of precious stones on it. The first row was carnelian, chrysolite and beryl; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_11"><sup>11</sup>the second row was turquoise, lapis lazuli and emerald; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_12"><sup>12</sup>the third row was jacinth, agate and amethyst; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_13"><sup>13</sup>the fourth row was topaz, onyx and jasper.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The precise identification of some of these precious stones is uncertain.">⚓</a> They were mounted in gold filigree settings. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_14"><sup>14</sup>There were twelve stones, one for each of the names of the sons of Israel, each engraved like a seal with the name of one of the twelve tribes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_39_15"> <sup>15</sup>For the breastpiece they made braided chains of pure gold, like a rope. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_16"><sup>16</sup>They made two gold filigree settings and two gold rings, and fastened the rings to two of the corners of the breastpiece. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_17"><sup>17</sup>They fastened the two gold chains to the rings at the corners of the breastpiece, </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_18"><sup>18</sup>and the other ends of the chains to the two settings, attaching them to the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_19"><sup>19</sup>They made two gold rings and attached them to the other two corners of the breastpiece on the inside edge next to the ephod. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_20"><sup>20</sup>Then they made two more gold rings and attached them to the bottom of the shoulder pieces on the front of the ephod, close to the seam just above the waistband of the ephod. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_21"><sup>21</sup>They tied the rings of the breastpiece to the rings of the ephod with blue cord, connecting it to the waistband so that the breastpiece would not swing out from the ephod—as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Other Priestly Garments </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_39_22"> <sup>22</sup>They made the robe of the ephod entirely of blue cloth—the work of a weaver— </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_23"><sup>23</sup>with an opening in the center of the robe like the opening of a collar,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> and a band around this opening, so that it would not tear. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_24"><sup>24</sup>They made pomegranates of blue, purple and scarlet yarn and finely twisted linen around the hem of the robe. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_25"><sup>25</sup>And they made bells of pure gold and attached them around the hem between the pomegranates. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_26"><sup>26</sup>The bells and pomegranates alternated around the hem of the robe to be worn for ministering, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_39_27"> <sup>27</sup>For Aaron and his sons, they made tunics of fine linen—the work of a weaver— </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_28"><sup>28</sup>and the turban of fine linen, the linen caps and the undergarments of finely twisted linen. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_29"><sup>29</sup>The sash was made of finely twisted linen and blue, purple and scarlet yarn—the work of an embroiderer—as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_39_30"> <sup>30</sup>They made the plate, the sacred emblem, out of pure gold and engraved on it, like an inscription on a seal: holy to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_31"><sup>31</sup>Then they fastened a blue cord to it to attach it to the turban, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Moses Inspects the Tabernacle </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_39_32"> <sup>32</sup>So all the work on the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, was completed. The Israelites did everything just as the Lord commanded Moses. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_33"><sup>33</sup>Then they brought the tabernacle to Moses: the tent and all its furnishings, its clasps, frames, crossbars, posts and bases; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_34"><sup>34</sup>the covering of ram skins dyed red and the covering of another durable leather<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Possibly the hides of large aquatic mammals">⚓</a> and the shielding curtain; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_35"><sup>35</sup>the ark of the covenant law with its poles and the atonement cover; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_36"><sup>36</sup>the table with all its articles and the bread of the Presence; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_37"><sup>37</sup>the pure gold lampstand with its row of lamps and all its accessories, and the olive oil for the light; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_38"><sup>38</sup>the gold altar, the anointing oil, the fragrant incense, and the curtain for the entrance to the tent; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_39"><sup>39</sup>the bronze altar with its bronze grating, its poles and all its utensils; the basin with its stand; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_40"><sup>40</sup>the curtains of the courtyard with its posts and bases, and the curtain for the entrance to the courtyard; the ropes and tent pegs for the courtyard; all the furnishings for the tabernacle, the tent of meeting; </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_41"><sup>41</sup>and the woven garments worn for ministering in the sanctuary, both the sacred garments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons when serving as priests. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_39_42"> <sup>42</sup>The Israelites had done all the work just as the Lord had commanded Moses. </span>
<span class="verse xu_39_43"><sup>43</sup>Moses inspected the work and saw that they had done it just as the Lord had commanded. So Moses blessed them. <br/></span>
