---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Exodus 
bookNumber: 2
audio: \Audio\NIV\xu\40.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>40</h1><h3>Setting Up the Tabernacle </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_40_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses: </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_2"><sup>2</sup>“Set up the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, on the first day of the first month. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_3"><sup>3</sup>Place the ark of the covenant law in it and shield the ark with the curtain. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_4"><sup>4</sup>Bring in the table and set out what belongs on it. Then bring in the lampstand and set up its lamps. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_5"><sup>5</sup>Place the gold altar of incense in front of the ark of the covenant law and put the curtain at the entrance to the tabernacle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Place the altar of burnt offering in front of the entrance to the tabernacle, the tent of meeting; </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_7"><sup>7</sup>place the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_8"><sup>8</sup>Set up the courtyard around it and put the curtain at the entrance to the courtyard. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and everything in it; consecrate it and all its furnishings, and it will be holy. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_10"><sup>10</sup>Then anoint the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils; consecrate the altar, and it will be most holy. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_11"><sup>11</sup>Anoint the basin and its stand and consecrate them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance to the tent of meeting and wash them with water. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_13"><sup>13</sup>Then dress Aaron in the sacred garments, anoint him and consecrate him so he may serve me as priest. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_14"><sup>14</sup>Bring his sons and dress them in tunics. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_15"><sup>15</sup>Anoint them just as you anointed their father, so they may serve me as priests. Their anointing will be to a priesthood that will continue throughout their generations.” </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_16"><sup>16</sup>Moses did everything just as the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_17"> <sup>17</sup>So the tabernacle was set up on the first day of the first month in the second year. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_18"><sup>18</sup>When Moses set up the tabernacle, he put the bases in place, erected the frames, inserted the crossbars and set up the posts. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_19"><sup>19</sup>Then he spread the tent over the tabernacle and put the covering over the tent, as the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_20"> <sup>20</sup>He took the tablets of the covenant law and placed them in the ark, attached the poles to the ark and put the atonement cover over it. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_21"><sup>21</sup>Then he brought the ark into the tabernacle and hung the shielding curtain and shielded the ark of the covenant law, as the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_22"> <sup>22</sup>Moses placed the table in the tent of meeting on the north side of the tabernacle outside the curtain </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_23"><sup>23</sup>and set out the bread on it before the Lord, as the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_24"> <sup>24</sup>He placed the lampstand in the tent of meeting opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_25"><sup>25</sup>and set up the lamps before the Lord, as the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_26"> <sup>26</sup>Moses placed the gold altar in the tent of meeting in front of the curtain </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_27"><sup>27</sup>and burned fragrant incense on it, as the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then he put up the curtain at the entrance to the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_29"><sup>29</sup>He set the altar of burnt offering near the entrance to the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, and offered on it burnt offerings and grain offerings, as the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_30"> <sup>30</sup>He placed the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it for washing, </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_31"><sup>31</sup>and Moses and Aaron and his sons used it to wash their hands and feet. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_32"><sup>32</sup>They washed whenever they entered the tent of meeting or approached the altar, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_33"> <sup>33</sup>Then Moses set up the courtyard around the tabernacle and altar and put up the curtain at the entrance to the courtyard. And so Moses finished the work. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Glory of the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse xu_40_34"> <sup>34</sup>Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_35"><sup>35</sup>Moses could not enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse xu_40_36"> <sup>36</sup>In all the travels of the Israelites, whenever the cloud lifted from above the tabernacle, they would set out; </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_37"><sup>37</sup>but if the cloud did not lift, they did not set out—until the day it lifted. </span>
<span class="verse xu_40_38"><sup>38</sup>So the cloud of the Lord was over the tabernacle by day, and fire was in the cloud by night, in the sight of all the Israelites during all their travels. <br/></span>
