---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Colossians 
bookNumber: 51
audio: \Audio\NIV\co\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse co_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>To God’s holy people in Colossae, the faithful brothers and sisters<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in 4:15.">⚓</a> in Christ: <br/> Grace and peace to you from God our Father.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts Father and the Lord Jesus Christ">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Thanksgiving and Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, </span>
<span class="verse co_1_4"><sup>4</sup>because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love you have for all God’s people— </span>
<span class="verse co_1_5"><sup>5</sup>the faith and love that spring from the hope stored up for you in heaven and about which you have already heard in the true message of the gospel </span>
<span class="verse co_1_6"><sup>6</sup>that has come to you. In the same way, the gospel is bearing fruit and growing throughout the whole world—just as it has been doing among you since the day you heard it and truly understood God’s grace. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_7"><sup>7</sup>You learned it from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or slave">⚓</a> who is a faithful minister of Christ on our<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts your">⚓</a> behalf, </span>
<span class="verse co_1_8"><sup>8</sup>and who also told us of your love in the Spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>For this reason, since the day we heard about you, we have not stopped praying for you. We continually ask God to fill you with the knowledge of his will through all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or all spiritual wisdom and understanding">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse co_1_10"><sup>10</sup>so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please him in every way: bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God, </span>
<span class="verse co_1_11"><sup>11</sup>being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might so that you may have great endurance and patience, </span>
<span class="verse co_1_12"><sup>12</sup>and giving joyful thanks to the Father, who has qualified you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="{#dedup}Some manuscripts us {/dedup}">⚓</a> to share in the inheritance of his holy people in the kingdom of light. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_13"><sup>13</sup>For he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the Son he loves, </span>
<span class="verse co_1_14"><sup>14</sup>in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Supremacy of the Son of God </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>The Son is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_16"><sup>16</sup>For in him all things were created: things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities; all things have been created through him and for him. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_17"><sup>17</sup>He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_18"><sup>18</sup>And he is the head of the body, the church; he is the beginning and the firstborn from among the dead, so that in everything he might have the supremacy. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_19"><sup>19</sup>For God was pleased to have all his fullness dwell in him, </span>
<span class="verse co_1_20"><sup>20</sup>and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether things on earth or things in heaven, by making peace through his blood, shed on the cross. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_1_21"> <sup>21</sup>Once you were alienated from God and were enemies in your minds because of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or minds, as shown by">⚓</a> your evil behavior. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_22"><sup>22</sup>But now he has reconciled you by Christ’s physical body through death to present you holy in his sight, without blemish and free from accusation— </span>
<span class="verse co_1_23"><sup>23</sup>if you continue in your faith, established and firm, and do not move from the hope held out in the gospel. This is the gospel that you heard and that has been proclaimed to every creature under heaven, and of which I, Paul, have become a servant. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Labor for the Church </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_1_24"> <sup>24</sup>Now I rejoice in what I am suffering for you, and I fill up in my flesh what is still lacking in regard to Christ’s afflictions, for the sake of his body, which is the church. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_25"><sup>25</sup>I have become its servant by the commission God gave me to present to you the word of God in its fullness— </span>
<span class="verse co_1_26"><sup>26</sup>the mystery that has been kept hidden for ages and generations, but is now disclosed to the Lord’s people. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_27"><sup>27</sup>To them God has chosen to make known among the Gentiles the glorious riches of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_1_28"> <sup>28</sup>He is the one we proclaim, admonishing and teaching everyone with all wisdom, so that we may present everyone fully mature in Christ. </span>
<span class="verse co_1_29"><sup>29</sup>To this end I strenuously contend with all the energy Christ so powerfully works in me. <br/></span>
