---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Colossians 
bookNumber: 51
audio: \Audio\NIV\co\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1></div>
<span class="verse co_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>I want you to know how hard I am contending for you and for those at Laodicea, and for all who have not met me personally. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_2"><sup>2</sup>My goal is that they may be encouraged in heart and united in love, so that they may have the full riches of complete understanding, in order that they may know the mystery of God, namely, Christ, </span>
<span class="verse co_2_3"><sup>3</sup>in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_4"><sup>4</sup>I tell you this so that no one may deceive you by fine-sounding arguments. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_5"><sup>5</sup>For though I am absent from you in body, I am present with you in spirit and delight to see how disciplined you are and how firm your faith in Christ is. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Spiritual Fullness in Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>So then, just as you received Christ Jesus as Lord, continue to live your lives in him, </span>
<span class="verse co_2_7"><sup>7</sup>rooted and built up in him, strengthened in the faith as you were taught, and overflowing with thankfulness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>See to it that no one takes you captive through hollow and deceptive philosophy, which depends on human tradition and the elemental spiritual forces<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the basic principles ; also in verse 20">⚓</a> of this world rather than on Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_2_9"> <sup>9</sup>For in Christ all the fullness of the Deity lives in bodily form, </span>
<span class="verse co_2_10"><sup>10</sup>and in Christ you have been brought to fullness. He is the head over every power and authority. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_11"><sup>11</sup>In him you were also circumcised with a circumcision not performed by human hands. Your whole self ruled by the flesh<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In contexts like this, the Greek word for flesh (sarx ) refers to the sinful state of human beings, often presented as a power in opposition to the Spirit; also in verse 13.">⚓</a> was put off when you were circumcised by<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or put off in the circumcision of">⚓</a> Christ, </span>
<span class="verse co_2_12"><sup>12</sup>having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through your faith in the working of God, who raised him from the dead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>When you were dead in your sins and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="{#dedup}Some manuscripts us {/dedup}">⚓</a> alive with Christ. He forgave us all our sins, </span>
<span class="verse co_2_14"><sup>14</sup>having canceled the charge of our legal indebtedness, which stood against us and condemned us; he has taken it away, nailing it to the cross. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_15"><sup>15</sup>And having disarmed the powers and authorities, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them by the cross.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or them in him">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Freedom From Human Rules </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_2_16"> <sup>16</sup>Therefore do not let anyone judge you by what you eat or drink, or with regard to a religious festival, a New Moon celebration or a Sabbath day. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_17"><sup>17</sup>These are a shadow of the things that were to come; the reality, however, is found in Christ. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_18"><sup>18</sup>Do not let anyone who delights in false humility and the worship of angels disqualify you. Such a person also goes into great detail about what they have seen; they are puffed up with idle notions by their unspiritual mind. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_19"><sup>19</sup>They have lost connection with the head, from whom the whole body, supported and held together by its ligaments and sinews, grows as God causes it to grow. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>Since you died with Christ to the elemental spiritual forces of this world, why, as though you still belonged to the world, do you submit to its rules: </span>
<span class="verse co_2_21"><sup>21</sup>“Do not handle! Do not taste! Do not touch!”? </span>
<span class="verse co_2_22"><sup>22</sup>These rules, which have to do with things that are all destined to perish with use, are based on merely human commands and teachings. </span>
<span class="verse co_2_23"><sup>23</sup>Such regulations indeed have an appearance of wisdom, with their self-imposed worship, their false humility and their harsh treatment of the body, but they lack any value in restraining sensual indulgence. <br/></span>
