---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Colossians 
bookNumber: 51
audio: \Audio\NIV\co\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Living as Those Made Alive in Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Since, then, you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_2"><sup>2</sup>Set your minds on things above, not on earthly things. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_3"><sup>3</sup>For you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_4"><sup>4</sup>When Christ, who is your<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts our">⚓</a> life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature: sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires and greed, which is idolatry. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_6"><sup>6</sup>Because of these, the wrath of God is coming.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts coming on those who are disobedient">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse co_3_7"><sup>7</sup>You used to walk in these ways, in the life you once lived. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_8"><sup>8</sup>But now you must also rid yourselves of all such things as these: anger, rage, malice, slander, and filthy language from your lips. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_9"><sup>9</sup>Do not lie to each other, since you have taken off your old self with its practices </span>
<span class="verse co_3_10"><sup>10</sup>and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge in the image of its Creator. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_11"><sup>11</sup>Here there is no Gentile or Jew, circumcised or uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave or free, but Christ is all, and is in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>Therefore, as God’s chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness and patience. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_13"><sup>13</sup>Bear with each other and forgive one another if any of you has a grievance against someone. Forgive as the Lord forgave you. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_14"><sup>14</sup>And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, since as members of one body you were called to peace. And be thankful. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_16"><sup>16</sup>Let the message of Christ dwell among you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom through psalms, hymns, and songs from the Spirit, singing to God with gratitude in your hearts. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_17"><sup>17</sup>And whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Instructions for Christian Households </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_3_18"> <sup>18</sup>Wives, submit yourselves to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_3_19"> <sup>19</sup>Husbands, love your wives and do not be harsh with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_3_20"> <sup>20</sup>Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_3_21"> <sup>21</sup>Fathers,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Parents">⚓</a> do not embitter your children, or they will become discouraged. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_3_22"> <sup>22</sup>Slaves, obey your earthly masters in everything; and do it, not only when their eye is on you and to curry their favor, but with sincerity of heart and reverence for the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_23"><sup>23</sup>Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for human masters, </span>
<span class="verse co_3_24"><sup>24</sup>since you know that you will receive an inheritance from the Lord as a reward. It is the Lord Christ you are serving. </span>
<span class="verse co_3_25"><sup>25</sup>Anyone who does wrong will be repaid for their wrongs, and there is no favoritism. <br/></span>
