---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Colossians 
bookNumber: 51
audio: \Audio\NIV\co\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1></div>
<span class="verse co_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Masters, provide your slaves with what is right and fair, because you know that you also have a Master in heaven. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Further Instructions </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_4_2"> <sup>2</sup>Devote yourselves to prayer, being watchful and thankful. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_3"><sup>3</sup>And pray for us, too, that God may open a door for our message, so that we may proclaim the mystery of Christ, for which I am in chains. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_4"><sup>4</sup>Pray that I may proclaim it clearly, as I should. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_5"><sup>5</sup>Be wise in the way you act toward outsiders; make the most of every opportunity. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Let your conversation be always full of grace, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how to answer everyone. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Greetings </h3></div>
<span class="verse co_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>Tychicus will tell you all the news about me. He is a dear brother, a faithful minister and fellow servant<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or slave ; also in verse 12">⚓</a> in the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_8"><sup>8</sup>I am sending him to you for the express purpose that you may know about our<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts that he may know about your">⚓</a> circumstances and that he may encourage your hearts. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_9"><sup>9</sup>He is coming with Onesimus, our faithful and dear brother, who is one of you. They will tell you everything that is happening here. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>My fellow prisoner Aristarchus sends you his greetings, as does Mark, the cousin of Barnabas. (You have received instructions about him; if he comes to you, welcome him.) </span>
<span class="verse co_4_11"><sup>11</sup>Jesus, who is called Justus, also sends greetings. These are the only Jews<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek only ones of the circumcision group">⚓</a> among my co-workers for the kingdom of God, and they have proved a comfort to me. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_12"><sup>12</sup>Epaphras, who is one of you and a servant of Christ Jesus, sends greetings. He is always wrestling in prayer for you, that you may stand firm in all the will of God, mature and fully assured. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_13"><sup>13</sup>I vouch for him that he is working hard for you and for those at Laodicea and Hierapolis. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_14"><sup>14</sup>Our dear friend Luke, the doctor, and Demas send greetings. </span>
<span class="verse co_4_15"><sup>15</sup>Give my greetings to the brothers and sisters at Laodicea, and to Nympha and the church in her house. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_4_16"> <sup>16</sup>After this letter has been read to you, see that it is also read in the church of the Laodiceans and that you in turn read the letter from Laodicea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>Tell Archippus: “See to it that you complete the ministry you have received in the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse co_4_18"> <sup>18</sup>I, Paul, write this greeting in my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. <br/></span>
