---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Hosea 
bookNumber: 28
audio: \Audio\NIV\os\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse os_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord that came to Hosea son of Beeri during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and during the reign of Jeroboam son of Jehoash<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Joash, a variant of Jehoash">⚓</a> king of Israel: <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Hosea’s Wife and Children </h3></div>
<span class="verse os_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>When the Lord began to speak through Hosea, the Lord said to him, “Go, marry a promiscuous woman and have children with her, for like an adulterous wife this land is guilty of unfaithfulness to the Lord.” </span>
<span class="verse os_1_3"><sup>3</sup>So he married Gomer daughter of Diblaim, and she conceived and bore him a son. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then the Lord said to Hosea, “Call him Jezreel, because I will soon punish the house of Jehu for the massacre at Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse os_1_5"><sup>5</sup>In that day I will break Israel’s bow in the Valley of Jezreel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>Gomer conceived again and gave birth to a daughter. Then the Lord said to Hosea, “Call her Lo-Ruhamah (which means “not loved”), for I will no longer show love to Israel, that I should at all forgive them. </span>
<span class="verse os_1_7"><sup>7</sup>Yet I will show love to Judah; and I will save them—not by bow, sword or battle, or by horses and horsemen, but I, the Lord their God, will save them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>After she had weaned Lo-Ruhamah, Gomer had another son. </span>
<span class="verse os_1_9"><sup>9</sup>Then the Lord said, “Call him Lo-Ammi (which means “not my people”), for you are not my people, and I am not your God.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or your I am">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse os_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Yet the Israelites will be like the sand on the seashore, which cannot be measured or counted. In the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ they will be called ‘children of the living God.’ </span>
<span class="verse os_1_11"><sup>11</sup>The people of Judah and the people of Israel will come together; they will appoint one leader and will come up out of the land, for great will be the day of Jezreel.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts 1:10,11 is numbered 2:1,2.">⚓</a><br/></span>
