---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Hosea 
bookNumber: 28
audio: \Audio\NIV\os\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>Israel to Reap the Whirlwind </h3></div>
<span class="verse os_8_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Put the trumpet to your lips! <br/>   An eagle is over the house of the Lord<br/>  because the people have broken my covenant <br/>   and rebelled against my law. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_2">  <sup>2</sup>Israel cries out to me, <br/>   ‘Our God, we acknowledge you!’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_3">  <sup>3</sup>But Israel has rejected what is good; <br/>   an enemy will pursue him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_4">  <sup>4</sup>They set up kings without my consent; <br/>   they choose princes without my approval. <br/>  With their silver and gold <br/>   they make idols for themselves <br/>   to their own destruction. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_5">  <sup>5</sup>Samaria, throw out your calf-idol! <br/>   My anger burns against them. <br/>  How long will they be incapable of purity? <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_6">   <sup>6</sup>They are from Israel! <br/>  This calf—a metalworker has made it; <br/>   it is not God. <br/>  It will be broken in pieces, <br/>   that calf of Samaria. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_7">  <sup>7</sup>“They sow the wind <br/>   and reap the whirlwind. <br/>  The stalk has no head; <br/>   it will produce no flour. <br/>  Were it to yield grain, <br/>   foreigners would swallow it up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_8">  <sup>8</sup>Israel is swallowed up; <br/>   now she is among the nations <br/>   like something no one wants. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_9">  <sup>9</sup>For they have gone up to Assyria <br/>   like a wild donkey wandering alone. <br/>   Ephraim has sold herself to lovers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_10">  <sup>10</sup>Although they have sold themselves among the nations, <br/>   I will now gather them together. <br/>  They will begin to waste away <br/>   under the oppression of the mighty king. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_11">  <sup>11</sup>“Though Ephraim built many altars for sin offerings, <br/>   these have become altars for sinning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_12">  <sup>12</sup>I wrote for them the many things of my law, <br/>   but they regarded them as something foreign. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_13">  <sup>13</sup>Though they offer sacrifices as gifts to me, <br/>   and though they eat the meat, <br/>   the Lord is not pleased with them. <br/>  Now he will remember their wickedness <br/>   and punish their sins: <br/>   They will return to Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_8_14">  <sup>14</sup>Israel has forgotten their Maker <br/>   and built palaces; <br/>   Judah has fortified many towns. <br/>  But I will send fire on their cities <br/>   that will consume their fortresses.” <br/></span>
