---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Hosea 
bookNumber: 28
audio: \Audio\NIV\os\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>Punishment for Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse os_9_1">  <sup>1</sup>Do not rejoice, Israel; <br/>   do not be jubilant like the other nations. <br/>  For you have been unfaithful to your God; <br/>   you love the wages of a prostitute <br/>   at every threshing floor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_2">  <sup>2</sup>Threshing floors and winepresses will not feed the people; <br/>   the new wine will fail them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_3">  <sup>3</sup>They will not remain in the Lord’s land; <br/>   Ephraim will return to Egypt <br/>   and eat unclean food in Assyria. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_4">  <sup>4</sup>They will not pour out wine offerings to the Lord, <br/>   nor will their sacrifices please him. <br/>  Such sacrifices will be to them like the bread of mourners; <br/>   all who eat them will be unclean. <br/>  This food will be for themselves; <br/>   it will not come into the temple of the Lord. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_5">  <sup>5</sup>What will you do on the day of your appointed festivals, <br/>   on the feast days of the Lord? <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_6">  <sup>6</sup>Even if they escape from destruction, <br/>   Egypt will gather them, <br/>   and Memphis will bury them. <br/>  Their treasures of silver will be taken over by briers, <br/>   and thorns will overrun their tents. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_7">  <sup>7</sup>The days of punishment are coming, <br/>   the days of reckoning are at hand. <br/>   Let Israel know this. <br/>  Because your sins are so many <br/>   and your hostility so great, <br/>  the prophet is considered a fool, <br/>   the inspired person a maniac. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_8">  <sup>8</sup>The prophet, along with my God, <br/>   is the watchman over Ephraim,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or The prophet is the watchman over Ephraim, / the people of my God">⚓</a><br/>  yet snares await him on all his paths, <br/>   and hostility in the house of his God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_9">  <sup>9</sup>They have sunk deep into corruption, <br/>   as in the days of Gibeah. <br/>  God will remember their wickedness <br/>   and punish them for their sins. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_10">  <sup>10</sup>“When I found Israel, <br/>   it was like finding grapes in the desert; <br/>  when I saw your ancestors, <br/>   it was like seeing the early fruit on the fig tree. <br/>  But when they came to Baal Peor, <br/>   they consecrated themselves to that shameful idol <br/>   and became as vile as the thing they loved. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_11">  <sup>11</sup>Ephraim’s glory will fly away like a bird— <br/>   no birth, no pregnancy, no conception. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_12">  <sup>12</sup>Even if they rear children, <br/>   I will bereave them of every one. <br/>  Woe to them <br/>   when I turn away from them! <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_13">  <sup>13</sup>I have seen Ephraim, like Tyre, <br/>   planted in a pleasant place. <br/>  But Ephraim will bring out <br/>   their children to the slayer.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_14">  <sup>14</sup>Give them, Lord— <br/>   what will you give them? <br/>  Give them wombs that miscarry <br/>   and breasts that are dry. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_15">  <sup>15</sup>“Because of all their wickedness in Gilgal, <br/>   I hated them there. <br/>  Because of their sinful deeds, <br/>   I will drive them out of my house. <br/>  I will no longer love them; <br/>   all their leaders are rebellious. <br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_16">  <sup>16</sup>Ephraim is blighted, <br/>   their root is withered, <br/>   they yield no fruit. <br/>  Even if they bear children, <br/>   I will slay their cherished offspring.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse os_9_17">  <sup>17</sup>My God will reject them <br/>   because they have not obeyed him; <br/>   they will be wanderers among the nations. <br/><br/></span>
