---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>The Census </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord spoke to Moses in the tent of meeting in the Desert of Sinai on the first day of the second month of the second year after the Israelites came out of Egypt. He said: </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_2"><sup>2</sup>“Take a census of the whole Israelite community by their clans and families, listing every man by name, one by one. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_3"><sup>3</sup>You and Aaron are to count according to their divisions all the men in Israel who are twenty years old or more and able to serve in the army. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_4"><sup>4</sup>One man from each tribe, each of them the head of his family, is to help you. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_5"><sup>5</sup>These are the names of the men who are to assist you: <br/>  from Reuben, Elizur son of Shedeur; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_6">  <sup>6</sup>from Simeon, Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_7">  <sup>7</sup>from Judah, Nahshon son of Amminadab; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_8">  <sup>8</sup>from Issachar, Nethanel son of Zuar; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_9">  <sup>9</sup>from Zebulun, Eliab son of Helon; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_10">  <sup>10</sup>from the sons of Joseph: <br/>    from Ephraim, Elishama son of Ammihud; <br/>    from Manasseh, Gamaliel son of Pedahzur; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_11">  <sup>11</sup>from Benjamin, Abidan son of Gideoni; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_12">  <sup>12</sup>from Dan, Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_13">  <sup>13</sup>from Asher, Pagiel son of Okran; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_14">  <sup>14</sup>from Gad, Eliasaph son of Deuel; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_15">  <sup>15</sup>from Naphtali, Ahira son of Enan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>These were the men appointed from the community, the leaders of their ancestral tribes. They were the heads of the clans of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>Moses and Aaron took these men whose names had been specified, </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_18"><sup>18</sup>and they called the whole community together on the first day of the second month. The people registered their ancestry by their clans and families, and the men twenty years old or more were listed by name, one by one, </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_19"><sup>19</sup>as the Lord commanded Moses. And so he counted them in the Desert of Sinai: <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_20">  <sup>20</sup>From the descendants of Reuben the firstborn son of Israel: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, one by one, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_21"><sup>21</sup>The number from the tribe of Reuben was 46,500. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_22">  <sup>22</sup>From the descendants of Simeon: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were counted and listed by name, one by one, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_23"><sup>23</sup>The number from the tribe of Simeon was 59,300. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_24">  <sup>24</sup>From the descendants of Gad: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_25"><sup>25</sup>The number from the tribe of Gad was 45,650. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_26">  <sup>26</sup>From the descendants of Judah: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_27"><sup>27</sup>The number from the tribe of Judah was 74,600. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_28">  <sup>28</sup>From the descendants of Issachar: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_29"><sup>29</sup>The number from the tribe of Issachar was 54,400. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_30">  <sup>30</sup>From the descendants of Zebulun: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_31"><sup>31</sup>The number from the tribe of Zebulun was 57,400. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_32">  <sup>32</sup>From the sons of Joseph: <br/>  From the descendants of Ephraim: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_33"><sup>33</sup>The number from the tribe of Ephraim was 40,500. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_34">  <sup>34</sup>From the descendants of Manasseh: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_35"><sup>35</sup>The number from the tribe of Manasseh was 32,200. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_36">  <sup>36</sup>From the descendants of Benjamin: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_37"><sup>37</sup>The number from the tribe of Benjamin was 35,400. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_38">  <sup>38</sup>From the descendants of Dan: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_39"><sup>39</sup>The number from the tribe of Dan was 62,700. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_40">  <sup>40</sup>From the descendants of Asher: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_41"><sup>41</sup>The number from the tribe of Asher was 41,500. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_42">  <sup>42</sup>From the descendants of Naphtali: <br/>    All the men twenty years old or more who were able to serve in the army were listed by name, according to the records of their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_43"><sup>43</sup>The number from the tribe of Naphtali was 53,400. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_44"> <sup>44</sup>These were the men counted by Moses and Aaron and the twelve leaders of Israel, each one representing his family. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_45"><sup>45</sup>All the Israelites twenty years old or more who were able to serve in Israel’s army were counted according to their families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_46"><sup>46</sup>The total number was 603,550. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_47"> <sup>47</sup>The ancestral tribe of the Levites, however, was not counted along with the others. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_48"><sup>48</sup>The Lord had said to Moses: </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_49"><sup>49</sup>“You must not count the tribe of Levi or include them in the census of the other Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_50"><sup>50</sup>Instead, appoint the Levites to be in charge of the tabernacle of the covenant law—over all its furnishings and everything belonging to it. They are to carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings; they are to take care of it and encamp around it. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_51"><sup>51</sup>Whenever the tabernacle is to move, the Levites are to take it down, and whenever the tabernacle is to be set up, the Levites shall do it. Anyone else who approaches it is to be put to death. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_52"><sup>52</sup>The Israelites are to set up their tents by divisions, each of them in their own camp under their standard. </span>
<span class="verse dan_1_53"><sup>53</sup>The Levites, however, are to set up their tents around the tabernacle of the covenant law so that my wrath will not fall on the Israelite community. The Levites are to be responsible for the care of the tabernacle of the covenant law.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_1_54"> <sup>54</sup>The Israelites did all this just as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
