---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>The Levites </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is the account of the family of Aaron and Moses at the time the Lord spoke to Moses at Mount Sinai. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_2"> <sup>2</sup>The names of the sons of Aaron were Nadab the firstborn and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_3"><sup>3</sup>Those were the names of Aaron’s sons, the anointed priests, who were ordained to serve as priests. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Nadab and Abihu, however, died before the Lord when they made an offering with unauthorized fire before him in the Desert of Sinai. They had no sons, so Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests during the lifetime of their father Aaron. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_6"><sup>6</sup>“Bring the tribe of Levi and present them to Aaron the priest to assist him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_7"><sup>7</sup>They are to perform duties for him and for the whole community at the tent of meeting by doing the work of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_8"><sup>8</sup>They are to take care of all the furnishings of the tent of meeting, fulfilling the obligations of the Israelites by doing the work of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_9"><sup>9</sup>Give the Levites to Aaron and his sons; they are the Israelites who are to be given wholly to him.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most manuscripts of the Masoretic Text; some manuscripts of the Masoretic Text, Samaritan Pentateuch and Septuagint (see also 8:16) to me">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_10"><sup>10</sup>Appoint Aaron and his sons to serve as priests; anyone else who approaches the sanctuary is to be put to death.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>The Lord also said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_12"><sup>12</sup>“I have taken the Levites from among the Israelites in place of the first male offspring of every Israelite woman. The Levites are mine, </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_13"><sup>13</sup>for all the firstborn are mine. When I struck down all the firstborn in Egypt, I set apart for myself every firstborn in Israel, whether human or animal. They are to be mine. I am the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Lord said to Moses in the Desert of Sinai, </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_15"><sup>15</sup>“Count the Levites by their families and clans. Count every male a month old or more.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_16"><sup>16</sup>So Moses counted them, as he was commanded by the word of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_17">  <sup>17</sup>These were the names of the sons of Levi: <br/>    Gershon, Kohath and Merari. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_18">  <sup>18</sup>These were the names of the Gershonite clans: <br/>    Libni and Shimei. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_19">  <sup>19</sup>The Kohathite clans: <br/>    Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_20">  <sup>20</sup>The Merarite clans: <br/>    Mahli and Mushi. <br/> These were the Levite clans, according to their families. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_21"> <sup>21</sup>To Gershon belonged the clans of the Libnites and Shimeites; these were the Gershonite clans. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_22"><sup>22</sup>The number of all the males a month old or more who were counted was 7,500. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_23"><sup>23</sup>The Gershonite clans were to camp on the west, behind the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_24"><sup>24</sup>The leader of the families of the Gershonites was Eliasaph son of Lael. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_25"><sup>25</sup>At the tent of meeting the Gershonites were responsible for the care of the tabernacle and tent, its coverings, the curtain at the entrance to the tent of meeting, </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_26"><sup>26</sup>the curtains of the courtyard, the curtain at the entrance to the courtyard surrounding the tabernacle and altar, and the ropes—and everything related to their use. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_27"> <sup>27</sup>To Kohath belonged the clans of the Amramites, Izharites, Hebronites and Uzzielites; these were the Kohathite clans. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_28"><sup>28</sup>The number of all the males a month old or more was 8,600.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts 8,300">⚓</a> The Kohathites were responsible for the care of the sanctuary. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_29"><sup>29</sup>The Kohathite clans were to camp on the south side of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_30"><sup>30</sup>The leader of the families of the Kohathite clans was Elizaphan son of Uzziel. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_31"><sup>31</sup>They were responsible for the care of the ark, the table, the lampstand, the altars, the articles of the sanctuary used in ministering, the curtain, and everything related to their use. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_32"><sup>32</sup>The chief leader of the Levites was Eleazar son of Aaron, the priest. He was appointed over those who were responsible for the care of the sanctuary. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_33"> <sup>33</sup>To Merari belonged the clans of the Mahlites and the Mushites; these were the Merarite clans. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_34"><sup>34</sup>The number of all the males a month old or more who were counted was 6,200. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_35"><sup>35</sup>The leader of the families of the Merarite clans was Zuriel son of Abihail; they were to camp on the north side of the tabernacle. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_36"><sup>36</sup>The Merarites were appointed to take care of the frames of the tabernacle, its crossbars, posts, bases, all its equipment, and everything related to their use, </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_37"><sup>37</sup>as well as the posts of the surrounding courtyard with their bases, tent pegs and ropes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_38"> <sup>38</sup>Moses and Aaron and his sons were to camp to the east of the tabernacle, toward the sunrise, in front of the tent of meeting. They were responsible for the care of the sanctuary on behalf of the Israelites. Anyone else who approached the sanctuary was to be put to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_39"> <sup>39</sup>The total number of Levites counted at the Lord’s command by Moses and Aaron according to their clans, including every male a month old or more, was 22,000. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_40"> <sup>40</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “Count all the firstborn Israelite males who are a month old or more and make a list of their names. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_41"><sup>41</sup>Take the Levites for me in place of all the firstborn of the Israelites, and the livestock of the Levites in place of all the firstborn of the livestock of the Israelites. I am the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_42"> <sup>42</sup>So Moses counted all the firstborn of the Israelites, as the Lord commanded him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_43"><sup>43</sup>The total number of firstborn males a month old or more, listed by name, was 22,273. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_44"> <sup>44</sup>The Lord also said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_45"><sup>45</sup>“Take the Levites in place of all the firstborn of Israel, and the livestock of the Levites in place of their livestock. The Levites are to be mine. I am the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_46"><sup>46</sup>To redeem the 273 firstborn Israelites who exceed the number of the Levites, </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_47"><sup>47</sup>collect five shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 2 ounces or about 58 grams">⚓</a> for each one, according to the sanctuary shekel, which weighs twenty gerahs. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_48"><sup>48</sup>Give the money for the redemption of the additional Israelites to Aaron and his sons.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_3_49"> <sup>49</sup>So Moses collected the redemption money from those who exceeded the number redeemed by the Levites. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_50"><sup>50</sup>From the firstborn of the Israelites he collected silver weighing 1,365 shekels,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 35 pounds or about 16 kilograms">⚓</a> according to the sanctuary shekel. </span>
<span class="verse dan_3_51"><sup>51</sup>Moses gave the redemption money to Aaron and his sons, as he was commanded by the word of the Lord. <br/></span>
