---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>The Kohathites </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron: </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_2"><sup>2</sup>“Take a census of the Kohathite branch of the Levites by their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_3"><sup>3</sup>Count all the men from thirty to fifty years of age who come to serve in the work at the tent of meeting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>“This is the work of the Kohathites at the tent of meeting: the care of the most holy things. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_5"><sup>5</sup>When the camp is to move, Aaron and his sons are to go in and take down the shielding curtain and put it over the ark of the covenant law. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Then they are to cover the curtain with a durable leather,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Possibly the hides of large aquatic mammals; also in verses 8, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 25">⚓</a> spread a cloth of solid blue over that and put the poles in place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Over the table of the Presence they are to spread a blue cloth and put on it the plates, dishes and bowls, and the jars for drink offerings; the bread that is continually there is to remain on it. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_8"><sup>8</sup>They are to spread a scarlet cloth over them, cover that with the durable leather and put the poles in place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>“They are to take a blue cloth and cover the lampstand that is for light, together with its lamps, its wick trimmers and trays, and all its jars for the olive oil used to supply it. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_10"><sup>10</sup>Then they are to wrap it and all its accessories in a covering of the durable leather and put it on a carrying frame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Over the gold altar they are to spread a blue cloth and cover that with the durable leather and put the poles in place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_12"> <sup>12</sup>“They are to take all the articles used for ministering in the sanctuary, wrap them in a blue cloth, cover that with the durable leather and put them on a carrying frame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>“They are to remove the ashes from the bronze altar and spread a purple cloth over it. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_14"><sup>14</sup>Then they are to place on it all the utensils used for ministering at the altar, including the firepans, meat forks, shovels and sprinkling bowls. Over it they are to spread a covering of the durable leather and put the poles in place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>“After Aaron and his sons have finished covering the holy furnishings and all the holy articles, and when the camp is ready to move, only then are the Kohathites to come and do the carrying. But they must not touch the holy things or they will die. The Kohathites are to carry those things that are in the tent of meeting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_16"> <sup>16</sup>“Eleazar son of Aaron, the priest, is to have charge of the oil for the light, the fragrant incense, the regular grain offering and the anointing oil. He is to be in charge of the entire tabernacle and everything in it, including its holy furnishings and articles.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_18"><sup>18</sup>“See that the Kohathite tribal clans are not destroyed from among the Levites. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_19"><sup>19</sup>So that they may live and not die when they come near the most holy things, do this for them: Aaron and his sons are to go into the sanctuary and assign to each man his work and what he is to carry. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_20"><sup>20</sup>But the Kohathites must not go in to look at the holy things, even for a moment, or they will die.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Gershonites </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_22"><sup>22</sup>“Take a census also of the Gershonites by their families and clans. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_23"><sup>23</sup>Count all the men from thirty to fifty years of age who come to serve in the work at the tent of meeting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_24"> <sup>24</sup>“This is the service of the Gershonite clans in their carrying and their other work: </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_25"><sup>25</sup>They are to carry the curtains of the tabernacle, that is, the tent of meeting, its covering and its outer covering of durable leather, the curtains for the entrance to the tent of meeting, </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_26"><sup>26</sup>the curtains of the courtyard surrounding the tabernacle and altar, the curtain for the entrance to the courtyard, the ropes and all the equipment used in the service of the tent. The Gershonites are to do all that needs to be done with these things. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_27"><sup>27</sup>All their service, whether carrying or doing other work, is to be done under the direction of Aaron and his sons. You shall assign to them as their responsibility all they are to carry. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_28"><sup>28</sup>This is the service of the Gershonite clans at the tent of meeting. Their duties are to be under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron, the priest. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Merarites </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_4_29"> <sup>29</sup>“Count the Merarites by their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_30"><sup>30</sup>Count all the men from thirty to fifty years of age who come to serve in the work at the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_31"><sup>31</sup>As part of all their service at the tent, they are to carry the frames of the tabernacle, its crossbars, posts and bases, </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_32"><sup>32</sup>as well as the posts of the surrounding courtyard with their bases, tent pegs, ropes, all their equipment and everything related to their use. Assign to each man the specific things he is to carry. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_33"><sup>33</sup>This is the service of the Merarite clans as they work at the tent of meeting under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron, the priest.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Numbering of the Levite Clans </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_4_34"> <sup>34</sup>Moses, Aaron and the leaders of the community counted the Kohathites by their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_35"><sup>35</sup>All the men from thirty to fifty years of age who came to serve in the work at the tent of meeting, </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_36"><sup>36</sup>counted by clans, were 2,750. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_37"><sup>37</sup>This was the total of all those in the Kohathite clans who served at the tent of meeting. Moses and Aaron counted them according to the Lord’s command through Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_38"> <sup>38</sup>The Gershonites were counted by their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_39"><sup>39</sup>All the men from thirty to fifty years of age who came to serve in the work at the tent of meeting, </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_40"><sup>40</sup>counted by their clans and families, were 2,630. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_41"><sup>41</sup>This was the total of those in the Gershonite clans who served at the tent of meeting. Moses and Aaron counted them according to the Lord’s command. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_42"> <sup>42</sup>The Merarites were counted by their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_43"><sup>43</sup>All the men from thirty to fifty years of age who came to serve in the work at the tent of meeting, </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_44"><sup>44</sup>counted by their clans, were 3,200. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_45"><sup>45</sup>This was the total of those in the Merarite clans. Moses and Aaron counted them according to the Lord’s command through Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_4_46"> <sup>46</sup>So Moses, Aaron and the leaders of Israel counted all the Levites by their clans and families. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_47"><sup>47</sup>All the men from thirty to fifty years of age who came to do the work of serving and carrying the tent of meeting </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_48"><sup>48</sup>numbered 8,580. </span>
<span class="verse dan_4_49"><sup>49</sup>At the Lord’s command through Moses, each was assigned his work and told what to carry. <br/> Thus they were counted, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
