---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>The Purity of the Camp </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_2"><sup>2</sup>“Command the Israelites to send away from the camp anyone who has a defiling skin disease<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word for defiling skin disease , traditionally translated “leprosy,” was used for various diseases affecting the skin.">⚓</a> or a discharge of any kind, or who is ceremonially unclean because of a dead body. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_3"><sup>3</sup>Send away male and female alike; send them outside the camp so they will not defile their camp, where I dwell among them.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_4"><sup>4</sup>The Israelites did so; they sent them outside the camp. They did just as the Lord had instructed Moses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Restitution for Wrongs </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_5_5"> <sup>5</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_6"><sup>6</sup>“Say to the Israelites: ‘Any man or woman who wrongs another in any way<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or woman who commits any wrong common to mankind">⚓</a> and so is unfaithful to the Lord is guilty </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_7"><sup>7</sup>and must confess the sin they have committed. They must make full restitution for the wrong they have done, add a fifth of the value to it and give it all to the person they have wronged. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_8"><sup>8</sup>But if that person has no close relative to whom restitution can be made for the wrong, the restitution belongs to the Lord and must be given to the priest, along with the ram with which atonement is made for the wrongdoer. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_9"><sup>9</sup>All the sacred contributions the Israelites bring to a priest will belong to him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_10"><sup>10</sup>Sacred things belong to their owners, but what they give to the priest will belong to the priest.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Test for an Unfaithful Wife </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_5_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_12"><sup>12</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘If a man’s wife goes astray and is unfaithful to him </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_13"><sup>13</sup>so that another man has sexual relations with her, and this is hidden from her husband and her impurity is undetected (since there is no witness against her and she has not been caught in the act), </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_14"><sup>14</sup>and if feelings of jealousy come over her husband and he suspects his wife and she is impure—or if he is jealous and suspects her even though she is not impure— </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_15"><sup>15</sup>then he is to take his wife to the priest. He must also take an offering of a tenth of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3 1/2 pounds or about 1.6 kilograms">⚓</a> of barley flour on her behalf. He must not pour olive oil on it or put incense on it, because it is a grain offering for jealousy, a reminder-offering to draw attention to wrongdoing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_5_16"> <sup>16</sup>“ ‘The priest shall bring her and have her stand before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_17"><sup>17</sup>Then he shall take some holy water in a clay jar and put some dust from the tabernacle floor into the water. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_18"><sup>18</sup>After the priest has had the woman stand before the Lord, he shall loosen her hair and place in her hands the reminder-offering, the grain offering for jealousy, while he himself holds the bitter water that brings a curse. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_19"><sup>19</sup>Then the priest shall put the woman under oath and say to her, “If no other man has had sexual relations with you and you have not gone astray and become impure while married to your husband, may this bitter water that brings a curse not harm you. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_20"><sup>20</sup>But if you have gone astray while married to your husband and you have made yourself impure by having sexual relations with a man other than your husband”— </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_21"><sup>21</sup>here the priest is to put the woman under this curse—“may the Lord cause you to become a curse<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, may he cause your name to be used in cursing (see Jer. 29:22); or, may others see that you are cursed; similarly in verse 27.">⚓</a> among your people when he makes your womb miscarry and your abdomen swell. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_22"><sup>22</sup>May this water that brings a curse enter your body so that your abdomen swells or your womb miscarries.” <br/> “ ‘Then the woman is to say, “Amen. So be it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_5_23"> <sup>23</sup>“ ‘The priest is to write these curses on a scroll and then wash them off into the bitter water. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_24"><sup>24</sup>He shall make the woman drink the bitter water that brings a curse, and this water that brings a curse and causes bitter suffering will enter her. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_25"><sup>25</sup>The priest is to take from her hands the grain offering for jealousy, wave it before the Lord and bring it to the altar. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_26"><sup>26</sup>The priest is then to take a handful of the grain offering as a memorial<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or representative">⚓</a> offering and burn it on the altar; after that, he is to have the woman drink the water. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_27"><sup>27</sup>If she has made herself impure and been unfaithful to her husband, this will be the result: When she is made to drink the water that brings a curse and causes bitter suffering, it will enter her, her abdomen will swell and her womb will miscarry, and she will become a curse. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_28"><sup>28</sup>If, however, the woman has not made herself impure, but is clean, she will be cleared of guilt and will be able to have children. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_5_29"> <sup>29</sup>“ ‘This, then, is the law of jealousy when a woman goes astray and makes herself impure while married to her husband, </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_30"><sup>30</sup>or when feelings of jealousy come over a man because he suspects his wife. The priest is to have her stand before the Lord and is to apply this entire law to her. </span>
<span class="verse dan_5_31"><sup>31</sup>The husband will be innocent of any wrongdoing, but the woman will bear the consequences of her sin.’ ” <br/></span>
