---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>The Nazirite </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_2"><sup>2</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘If a man or woman wants to make a special vow, a vow of dedication to the Lord as a Nazirite, </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_3"><sup>3</sup>they must abstain from wine and other fermented drink and must not drink vinegar made from wine or other fermented drink. They must not drink grape juice or eat grapes or raisins. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_4"><sup>4</sup>As long as they remain under their Nazirite vow, they must not eat anything that comes from the grapevine, not even the seeds or skins. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_5"> <sup>5</sup>“ ‘During the entire period of their Nazirite vow, no razor may be used on their head. They must be holy until the period of their dedication to the Lord is over; they must let their hair grow long. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘Throughout the period of their dedication to the Lord, the Nazirite must not go near a dead body. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_7"><sup>7</sup>Even if their own father or mother or brother or sister dies, they must not make themselves ceremonially unclean on account of them, because the symbol of their dedication to God is on their head. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_8"><sup>8</sup>Throughout the period of their dedication, they are consecrated to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘If someone dies suddenly in the Nazirite’s presence, thus defiling the hair that symbolizes their dedication, they must shave their head on the seventh day—the day of their cleansing. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_10"><sup>10</sup>Then on the eighth day they must bring two doves or two young pigeons to the priest at the entrance to the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_11"><sup>11</sup>The priest is to offer one as a sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also in verses 14 and 16">⚓</a> and the other as a burnt offering to make atonement for the Nazirite because they sinned by being in the presence of the dead body. That same day they are to consecrate their head again. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_12"><sup>12</sup>They must rededicate themselves to the Lord for the same period of dedication and must bring a year-old male lamb as a guilt offering. The previous days do not count, because they became defiled during their period of dedication. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Now this is the law of the Nazirite when the period of their dedication is over. They are to be brought to the entrance to the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_14"><sup>14</sup>There they are to present their offerings to the Lord: a year-old male lamb without defect for a burnt offering, a year-old ewe lamb without defect for a sin offering, a ram without defect for a fellowship offering, </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_15"><sup>15</sup>together with their grain offerings and drink offerings, and a basket of bread made with the finest flour and without yeast—thick loaves with olive oil mixed in, and thin loaves brushed with olive oil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>“ ‘The priest is to present all these before the Lord and make the sin offering and the burnt offering. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_17"><sup>17</sup>He is to present the basket of unleavened bread and is to sacrifice the ram as a fellowship offering to the Lord, together with its grain offering and drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_18"> <sup>18</sup>“ ‘Then at the entrance to the tent of meeting, the Nazirite must shave off the hair that symbolizes their dedication. They are to take the hair and put it in the fire that is under the sacrifice of the fellowship offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_19"> <sup>19</sup>“ ‘After the Nazirite has shaved off the hair that symbolizes their dedication, the priest is to place in their hands a boiled shoulder of the ram, and one thick loaf and one thin loaf from the basket, both made without yeast. </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_20"><sup>20</sup>The priest shall then wave these before the Lord as a wave offering; they are holy and belong to the priest, together with the breast that was waved and the thigh that was presented. After that, the Nazirite may drink wine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_21"> <sup>21</sup>“ ‘This is the law of the Nazirite who vows offerings to the Lord in accordance with their dedication, in addition to whatever else they can afford. They must fulfill the vows they have made, according to the law of the Nazirite.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Priestly Blessing </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_6_22"> <sup>22</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_6_23"><sup>23</sup>“Tell Aaron and his sons, ‘This is how you are to bless the Israelites. Say to them: <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_24">  <sup>24</sup>“ ‘ “The Lord bless you <br/>   and keep you; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_25">  <sup>25</sup>the Lord make his face shine on you <br/>   and be gracious to you; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_26">  <sup>26</sup>the Lord turn his face toward you <br/>   and give you peace.” ’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_6_27"> <sup>27</sup>“So they will put my name on the Israelites, and I will bless them.” <br/></span>
