---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Offerings at the Dedication of the Tabernacle </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Moses finished setting up the tabernacle, he anointed and consecrated it and all its furnishings. He also anointed and consecrated the altar and all its utensils. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_2"><sup>2</sup>Then the leaders of Israel, the heads of families who were the tribal leaders in charge of those who were counted, made offerings. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_3"><sup>3</sup>They brought as their gifts before the Lord six covered carts and twelve oxen—an ox from each leader and a cart from every two. These they presented before the tabernacle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_5"><sup>5</sup>“Accept these from them, that they may be used in the work at the tent of meeting. Give them to the Levites as each man’s work requires.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Moses took the carts and oxen and gave them to the Levites. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_7"><sup>7</sup>He gave two carts and four oxen to the Gershonites, as their work required, </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_8"><sup>8</sup>and he gave four carts and eight oxen to the Merarites, as their work required. They were all under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron, the priest. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_9"><sup>9</sup>But Moses did not give any to the Kohathites, because they were to carry on their shoulders the holy things, for which they were responsible. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_10"> <sup>10</sup>When the altar was anointed, the leaders brought their offerings for its dedication and presented them before the altar. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_11"><sup>11</sup>For the Lord had said to Moses, “Each day one leader is to bring his offering for the dedication of the altar.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>The one who brought his offering on the first day was Nahshon son of Amminadab of the tribe of Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_13"><sup>13</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 1/4 pounds or about 1.5 kilograms; also elsewhere in this chapter">⚓</a> and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 3/4 pounds or about 800 grams; also elsewhere in this chapter">⚓</a> both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_14"><sup>14</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 4 ounces or about 115 grams; also elsewhere in this chapter">⚓</a> filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_15"><sup>15</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_16"><sup>16</sup>one male goat for a sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also elsewhere in this chapter">⚓</a> ; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_17"><sup>17</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Nahshon son of Amminadab. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_18"> <sup>18</sup>On the second day Nethanel son of Zuar, the leader of Issachar, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_19"><sup>19</sup>The offering he brought was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_20"><sup>20</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_21"><sup>21</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_22"><sup>22</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_23"><sup>23</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Nethanel son of Zuar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_24"> <sup>24</sup>On the third day, Eliab son of Helon, the leader of the people of Zebulun, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_25"><sup>25</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_26"><sup>26</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_27"><sup>27</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_28"><sup>28</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_29"><sup>29</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Eliab son of Helon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_30"> <sup>30</sup>On the fourth day Elizur son of Shedeur, the leader of the people of Reuben, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_31"><sup>31</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_32"><sup>32</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_33"><sup>33</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_34"><sup>34</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_35"><sup>35</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Elizur son of Shedeur. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_36"> <sup>36</sup>On the fifth day Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai, the leader of the people of Simeon, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_37"><sup>37</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_38"><sup>38</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_39"><sup>39</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_40"><sup>40</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_41"><sup>41</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_42"> <sup>42</sup>On the sixth day Eliasaph son of Deuel, the leader of the people of Gad, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_43"><sup>43</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_44"><sup>44</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_45"><sup>45</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_46"><sup>46</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_47"><sup>47</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Eliasaph son of Deuel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_48"> <sup>48</sup>On the seventh day Elishama son of Ammihud, the leader of the people of Ephraim, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_49"><sup>49</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_50"><sup>50</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_51"><sup>51</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_52"><sup>52</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_53"><sup>53</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Elishama son of Ammihud. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_54"> <sup>54</sup>On the eighth day Gamaliel son of Pedahzur, the leader of the people of Manasseh, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_55"><sup>55</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_56"><sup>56</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_57"><sup>57</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_58"><sup>58</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_59"><sup>59</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Gamaliel son of Pedahzur. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_60"> <sup>60</sup>On the ninth day Abidan son of Gideoni, the leader of the people of Benjamin, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_61"><sup>61</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_62"><sup>62</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_63"><sup>63</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_64"><sup>64</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_65"><sup>65</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Abidan son of Gideoni. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_66"> <sup>66</sup>On the tenth day Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai, the leader of the people of Dan, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_67"><sup>67</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_68"><sup>68</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_69"><sup>69</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_70"><sup>70</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_71"><sup>71</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_72"> <sup>72</sup>On the eleventh day Pagiel son of Okran, the leader of the people of Asher, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_73"><sup>73</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_74"><sup>74</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_75"><sup>75</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_76"><sup>76</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_77"><sup>77</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Pagiel son of Okran. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_78"> <sup>78</sup>On the twelfth day Ahira son of Enan, the leader of the people of Naphtali, brought his offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_79"><sup>79</sup>His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with the finest flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_80"><sup>80</sup>one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_81"><sup>81</sup>one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old for a burnt offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_82"><sup>82</sup>one male goat for a sin offering; </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_83"><sup>83</sup>and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Ahira son of Enan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_84"> <sup>84</sup>These were the offerings of the Israelite leaders for the dedication of the altar when it was anointed: twelve silver plates, twelve silver sprinkling bowls and twelve gold dishes. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_85"><sup>85</sup>Each silver plate weighed a hundred and thirty shekels, and each sprinkling bowl seventy shekels. Altogether, the silver dishes weighed two thousand four hundred shekels,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 60 pounds or about 28 kilograms">⚓</a> according to the sanctuary shekel. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_86"><sup>86</sup>The twelve gold dishes filled with incense weighed ten shekels each, according to the sanctuary shekel. Altogether, the gold dishes weighed a hundred and twenty shekels.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 pounds or about 1.4 kilograms">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_87"><sup>87</sup>The total number of animals for the burnt offering came to twelve young bulls, twelve rams and twelve male lambs a year old, together with their grain offering. Twelve male goats were used for the sin offering. </span>
<span class="verse dan_7_88"><sup>88</sup>The total number of animals for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering came to twenty-four oxen, sixty rams, sixty male goats and sixty male lambs a year old. These were the offerings for the dedication of the altar after it was anointed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_7_89"> <sup>89</sup>When Moses entered the tent of meeting to speak with the Lord, he heard the voice speaking to him from between the two cherubim above the atonement cover on the ark of the covenant law. In this way the Lord spoke to him. <br/></span>
