---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>The Passover </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord spoke to Moses in the Desert of Sinai in the first month of the second year after they came out of Egypt. He said, </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_2"><sup>2</sup>“Have the Israelites celebrate the Passover at the appointed time. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_3"><sup>3</sup>Celebrate it at the appointed time, at twilight on the fourteenth day of this month, in accordance with all its rules and regulations.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_9_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Moses told the Israelites to celebrate the Passover, </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_5"><sup>5</sup>and they did so in the Desert of Sinai at twilight on the fourteenth day of the first month. The Israelites did everything just as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_9_6"> <sup>6</sup>But some of them could not celebrate the Passover on that day because they were ceremonially unclean on account of a dead body. So they came to Moses and Aaron that same day </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_7"><sup>7</sup>and said to Moses, “We have become unclean because of a dead body, but why should we be kept from presenting the Lord’s offering with the other Israelites at the appointed time?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_9_8"> <sup>8</sup>Moses answered them, “Wait until I find out what the Lord commands concerning you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_9_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_10"><sup>10</sup>“Tell the Israelites: ‘When any of you or your descendants are unclean because of a dead body or are away on a journey, they are still to celebrate the Lord’s Passover, </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_11"><sup>11</sup>but they are to do it on the fourteenth day of the second month at twilight. They are to eat the lamb, together with unleavened bread and bitter herbs. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_12"><sup>12</sup>They must not leave any of it till morning or break any of its bones. When they celebrate the Passover, they must follow all the regulations. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_13"><sup>13</sup>But if anyone who is ceremonially clean and not on a journey fails to celebrate the Passover, they must be cut off from their people for not presenting the Lord’s offering at the appointed time. They will bear the consequences of their sin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_9_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘A foreigner residing among you is also to celebrate the Lord’s Passover in accordance with its rules and regulations. You must have the same regulations for both the foreigner and the native-born.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Cloud Above the Tabernacle </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_9_15"> <sup>15</sup>On the day the tabernacle, the tent of the covenant law, was set up, the cloud covered it. From evening till morning the cloud above the tabernacle looked like fire. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_16"><sup>16</sup>That is how it continued to be; the cloud covered it, and at night it looked like fire. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_17"><sup>17</sup>Whenever the cloud lifted from above the tent, the Israelites set out; wherever the cloud settled, the Israelites encamped. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_18"><sup>18</sup>At the Lord’s command the Israelites set out, and at his command they encamped. As long as the cloud stayed over the tabernacle, they remained in camp. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_19"><sup>19</sup>When the cloud remained over the tabernacle a long time, the Israelites obeyed the Lord’s order and did not set out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_20"><sup>20</sup>Sometimes the cloud was over the tabernacle only a few days; at the Lord’s command they would encamp, and then at his command they would set out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_21"><sup>21</sup>Sometimes the cloud stayed only from evening till morning, and when it lifted in the morning, they set out. Whether by day or by night, whenever the cloud lifted, they set out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_22"><sup>22</sup>Whether the cloud stayed over the tabernacle for two days or a month or a year, the Israelites would remain in camp and not set out; but when it lifted, they would set out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_9_23"><sup>23</sup>At the Lord’s command they encamped, and at the Lord’s command they set out. They obeyed the Lord’s order, in accordance with his command through Moses. <br/></span>
