---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Silver Trumpets </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses: </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_2"><sup>2</sup>“Make two trumpets of hammered silver, and use them for calling the community together and for having the camps set out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_3"><sup>3</sup>When both are sounded, the whole community is to assemble before you at the entrance to the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_4"><sup>4</sup>If only one is sounded, the leaders—the heads of the clans of Israel—are to assemble before you. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_5"><sup>5</sup>When a trumpet blast is sounded, the tribes camping on the east are to set out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_6"><sup>6</sup>At the sounding of a second blast, the camps on the south are to set out. The blast will be the signal for setting out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_7"><sup>7</sup>To gather the assembly, blow the trumpets, but not with the signal for setting out. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_8"> <sup>8</sup>“The sons of Aaron, the priests, are to blow the trumpets. This is to be a lasting ordinance for you and the generations to come. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_9"><sup>9</sup>When you go into battle in your own land against an enemy who is oppressing you, sound a blast on the trumpets. Then you will be remembered by the Lord your God and rescued from your enemies. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_10"><sup>10</sup>Also at your times of rejoicing—your appointed festivals and New Moon feasts—you are to sound the trumpets over your burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, and they will be a memorial for you before your God. I am the Lord your God.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Israelites Leave Sinai </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_10_11"> <sup>11</sup>On the twentieth day of the second month of the second year, the cloud lifted from above the tabernacle of the covenant law. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_12"><sup>12</sup>Then the Israelites set out from the Desert of Sinai and traveled from place to place until the cloud came to rest in the Desert of Paran. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_13"><sup>13</sup>They set out, this first time, at the Lord’s command through Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_14"> <sup>14</sup>The divisions of the camp of Judah went first, under their standard. Nahshon son of Amminadab was in command. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_15"><sup>15</sup>Nethanel son of Zuar was over the division of the tribe of Issachar, </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_16"><sup>16</sup>and Eliab son of Helon was over the division of the tribe of Zebulun. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_17"><sup>17</sup>Then the tabernacle was taken down, and the Gershonites and Merarites, who carried it, set out. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>The divisions of the camp of Reuben went next, under their standard. Elizur son of Shedeur was in command. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_19"><sup>19</sup>Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai was over the division of the tribe of Simeon, </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_20"><sup>20</sup>and Eliasaph son of Deuel was over the division of the tribe of Gad. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_21"><sup>21</sup>Then the Kohathites set out, carrying the holy things. The tabernacle was to be set up before they arrived. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_22"> <sup>22</sup>The divisions of the camp of Ephraim went next, under their standard. Elishama son of Ammihud was in command. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_23"><sup>23</sup>Gamaliel son of Pedahzur was over the division of the tribe of Manasseh, </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_24"><sup>24</sup>and Abidan son of Gideoni was over the division of the tribe of Benjamin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_25"> <sup>25</sup>Finally, as the rear guard for all the units, the divisions of the camp of Dan set out under their standard. Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai was in command. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_26"><sup>26</sup>Pagiel son of Okran was over the division of the tribe of Asher, </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_27"><sup>27</sup>and Ahira son of Enan was over the division of the tribe of Naphtali. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_28"><sup>28</sup>This was the order of march for the Israelite divisions as they set out. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_29"> <sup>29</sup>Now Moses said to Hobab son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses’ father-in-law, “We are setting out for the place about which the Lord said, ‘I will give it to you.’ Come with us and we will treat you well, for the Lord has promised good things to Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_30"> <sup>30</sup>He answered, “No, I will not go; I am going back to my own land and my own people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_31"> <sup>31</sup>But Moses said, “Please do not leave us. You know where we should camp in the wilderness, and you can be our eyes. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_32"><sup>32</sup>If you come with us, we will share with you whatever good things the Lord gives us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_33"> <sup>33</sup>So they set out from the mountain of the Lord and traveled for three days. The ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them during those three days to find them a place to rest. </span>
<span class="verse dan_10_34"><sup>34</sup>The cloud of the Lord was over them by day when they set out from the camp. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_35"> <sup>35</sup>Whenever the ark set out, Moses said, <br/>  “Rise up, Lord! <br/>   May your enemies be scattered; <br/>   may your foes flee before you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_10_36"> <sup>36</sup>Whenever it came to rest, he said, <br/>  “Return, Lord, <br/>   to the countless thousands of Israel.” <br/></span>
