---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>Fire From the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now the people complained about their hardships in the hearing of the Lord, and when he heard them his anger was aroused. Then fire from the Lord burned among them and consumed some of the outskirts of the camp. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_2"><sup>2</sup>When the people cried out to Moses, he prayed to the Lord and the fire died down. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_3"><sup>3</sup>So that place was called Taberah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means burning .">⚓</a> because fire from the Lord had burned among them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Quail From the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>The rabble with them began to crave other food, and again the Israelites started wailing and said, “If only we had meat to eat! </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_5"><sup>5</sup>We remember the fish we ate in Egypt at no cost—also the cucumbers, melons, leeks, onions and garlic. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_6"><sup>6</sup>But now we have lost our appetite; we never see anything but this manna!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>The manna was like coriander seed and looked like resin. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_8"><sup>8</sup>The people went around gathering it, and then ground it in a hand mill or crushed it in a mortar. They cooked it in a pot or made it into loaves. And it tasted like something made with olive oil. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_9"><sup>9</sup>When the dew settled on the camp at night, the manna also came down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_10"> <sup>10</sup>Moses heard the people of every family wailing at the entrance to their tents. The Lord became exceedingly angry, and Moses was troubled. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_11"><sup>11</sup>He asked the Lord, “Why have you brought this trouble on your servant? What have I done to displease you that you put the burden of all these people on me? </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_12"><sup>12</sup>Did I conceive all these people? Did I give them birth? Why do you tell me to carry them in my arms, as a nurse carries an infant, to the land you promised on oath to their ancestors? </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_13"><sup>13</sup>Where can I get meat for all these people? They keep wailing to me, ‘Give us meat to eat!’ </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_14"><sup>14</sup>I cannot carry all these people by myself; the burden is too heavy for me. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_15"><sup>15</sup>If this is how you are going to treat me, please go ahead and kill me—if I have found favor in your eyes—and do not let me face my own ruin.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_16"> <sup>16</sup>The Lord said to Moses: “Bring me seventy of Israel’s elders who are known to you as leaders and officials among the people. Have them come to the tent of meeting, that they may stand there with you. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_17"><sup>17</sup>I will come down and speak with you there, and I will take some of the power of the Spirit that is on you and put it on them. They will share the burden of the people with you so that you will not have to carry it alone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Tell the people: ‘Consecrate yourselves in preparation for tomorrow, when you will eat meat. The Lord heard you when you wailed, “If only we had meat to eat! We were better off in Egypt!” Now the Lord will give you meat, and you will eat it. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_19"><sup>19</sup>You will not eat it for just one day, or two days, or five, ten or twenty days, </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_20"><sup>20</sup>but for a whole month—until it comes out of your nostrils and you loathe it—because you have rejected the Lord, who is among you, and have wailed before him, saying, “Why did we ever leave Egypt?” ’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_21"> <sup>21</sup>But Moses said, “Here I am among six hundred thousand men on foot, and you say, ‘I will give them meat to eat for a whole month!’ </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_22"><sup>22</sup>Would they have enough if flocks and herds were slaughtered for them? Would they have enough if all the fish in the sea were caught for them?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_23"> <sup>23</sup>The Lord answered Moses, “Is the Lord’s arm too short? Now you will see whether or not what I say will come true for you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_24"> <sup>24</sup>So Moses went out and told the people what the Lord had said. He brought together seventy of their elders and had them stand around the tent. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_25"><sup>25</sup>Then the Lord came down in the cloud and spoke with him, and he took some of the power of the Spirit that was on him and put it on the seventy elders. When the Spirit rested on them, they prophesied—but did not do so again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_26"> <sup>26</sup>However, two men, whose names were Eldad and Medad, had remained in the camp. They were listed among the elders, but did not go out to the tent. Yet the Spirit also rested on them, and they prophesied in the camp. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_27"><sup>27</sup>A young man ran and told Moses, “Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_28"> <sup>28</sup>Joshua son of Nun, who had been Moses’ aide since youth, spoke up and said, “Moses, my lord, stop them!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_29"> <sup>29</sup>But Moses replied, “Are you jealous for my sake? I wish that all the Lord’s people were prophets and that the Lord would put his Spirit on them!” </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_30"><sup>30</sup>Then Moses and the elders of Israel returned to the camp. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_31"> <sup>31</sup>Now a wind went out from the Lord and drove quail in from the sea. It scattered them up to two cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 feet or about 90 centimeters">⚓</a> deep all around the camp, as far as a day’s walk in any direction. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_32"><sup>32</sup>All that day and night and all the next day the people went out and gathered quail. No one gathered less than ten homers.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, possibly about 1 3/4 tons or about 1.6 metric tons">⚓</a> Then they spread them out all around the camp. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_33"><sup>33</sup>But while the meat was still between their teeth and before it could be consumed, the anger of the Lord burned against the people, and he struck them with a severe plague. </span>
<span class="verse dan_11_34"><sup>34</sup>Therefore the place was named Kibroth Hattaavah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means graves of craving .">⚓</a> because there they buried the people who had craved other food. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_11_35"> <sup>35</sup>From Kibroth Hattaavah the people traveled to Hazeroth and stayed there. <br/></span>
