---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Miriam and Aaron Oppose Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>Miriam and Aaron began to talk against Moses because of his Cushite wife, for he had married a Cushite. </span>
<span class="verse dan_12_2"><sup>2</sup>“Has the Lord spoken only through Moses?” they asked. “Hasn’t he also spoken through us?” And the Lord heard this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_3"> <sup>3</sup>(Now Moses was a very humble man, more humble than anyone else on the face of the earth.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_4"> <sup>4</sup>At once the Lord said to Moses, Aaron and Miriam, “Come out to the tent of meeting, all three of you.” So the three of them went out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_12_5"><sup>5</sup>Then the Lord came down in a pillar of cloud; he stood at the entrance to the tent and summoned Aaron and Miriam. When the two of them stepped forward, </span>
<span class="verse dan_12_6"><sup>6</sup>he said, “Listen to my words: <br/>  “When there is a prophet among you, <br/>   I, the Lord, reveal myself to them in visions, <br/>   I speak to them in dreams. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_7">  <sup>7</sup>But this is not true of my servant Moses; <br/>   he is faithful in all my house. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_8">  <sup>8</sup>With him I speak face to face, <br/>   clearly and not in riddles; <br/>   he sees the form of the Lord. <br/>  Why then were you not afraid <br/>   to speak against my servant Moses?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_9"> <sup>9</sup>The anger of the Lord burned against them, and he left them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_10"> <sup>10</sup>When the cloud lifted from above the tent, Miriam’s skin was leprous<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for leprous was used for various diseases affecting the skin.">⚓</a> —it became as white as snow. Aaron turned toward her and saw that she had a defiling skin disease, </span>
<span class="verse dan_12_11"><sup>11</sup>and he said to Moses, “Please, my lord, I ask you not to hold against us the sin we have so foolishly committed. </span>
<span class="verse dan_12_12"><sup>12</sup>Do not let her be like a stillborn infant coming from its mother’s womb with its flesh half eaten away.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>So Moses cried out to the Lord, “Please, God, heal her!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Lord replied to Moses, “If her father had spit in her face, would she not have been in disgrace for seven days? Confine her outside the camp for seven days; after that she can be brought back.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_12_15"><sup>15</sup>So Miriam was confined outside the camp for seven days, and the people did not move on till she was brought back. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_12_16"> <sup>16</sup>After that, the people left Hazeroth and encamped in the Desert of Paran. <br/></span>
