---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Exploring Canaan </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_2"><sup>2</sup>“Send some men to explore the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the Israelites. From each ancestral tribe send one of its leaders.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_3"> <sup>3</sup>So at the Lord’s command Moses sent them out from the Desert of Paran. All of them were leaders of the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_4"><sup>4</sup>These are their names: <br/>  from the tribe of Reuben, Shammua son of Zakkur; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_5">  <sup>5</sup>from the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat son of Hori; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_6">  <sup>6</sup>from the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_7">  <sup>7</sup>from the tribe of Issachar, Igal son of Joseph; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_8">  <sup>8</sup>from the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea son of Nun; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_9">  <sup>9</sup>from the tribe of Benjamin, Palti son of Raphu; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_10">  <sup>10</sup>from the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel son of Sodi; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_11">  <sup>11</sup>from the tribe of Manasseh (a tribe of Joseph), Gaddi son of Susi; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_12">  <sup>12</sup>from the tribe of Dan, Ammiel son of Gemalli; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_13">  <sup>13</sup>from the tribe of Asher, Sethur son of Michael; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_14">  <sup>14</sup>from the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi son of Vophsi; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_15">  <sup>15</sup>from the tribe of Gad, Geuel son of Maki. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_16"> <sup>16</sup>These are the names of the men Moses sent to explore the land. (Moses gave Hoshea son of Nun the name Joshua.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_17"> <sup>17</sup>When Moses sent them to explore Canaan, he said, “Go up through the Negev and on into the hill country. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_18"><sup>18</sup>See what the land is like and whether the people who live there are strong or weak, few or many. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_19"><sup>19</sup>What kind of land do they live in? Is it good or bad? What kind of towns do they live in? Are they unwalled or fortified? </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_20"><sup>20</sup>How is the soil? Is it fertile or poor? Are there trees in it or not? Do your best to bring back some of the fruit of the land.” (It was the season for the first ripe grapes.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_21"> <sup>21</sup>So they went up and explored the land from the Desert of Zin as far as Rehob, toward Lebo Hamath. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_22"><sup>22</sup>They went up through the Negev and came to Hebron, where Ahiman, Sheshai and Talmai, the descendants of Anak, lived. (Hebron had been built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.) </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_23"><sup>23</sup>When they reached the Valley of Eshkol,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means cluster ; also in verse 24.">⚓</a> they cut off a branch bearing a single cluster of grapes. Two of them carried it on a pole between them, along with some pomegranates and figs. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_24"><sup>24</sup>That place was called the Valley of Eshkol because of the cluster of grapes the Israelites cut off there. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_25"><sup>25</sup>At the end of forty days they returned from exploring the land. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Report on the Exploration </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_13_26"> <sup>26</sup>They came back to Moses and Aaron and the whole Israelite community at Kadesh in the Desert of Paran. There they reported to them and to the whole assembly and showed them the fruit of the land. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_27"><sup>27</sup>They gave Moses this account: “We went into the land to which you sent us, and it does flow with milk and honey! Here is its fruit. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_28"><sup>28</sup>But the people who live there are powerful, and the cities are fortified and very large. We even saw descendants of Anak there. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_29"><sup>29</sup>The Amalekites live in the Negev; the Hittites, Jebusites and Amorites live in the hill country; and the Canaanites live near the sea and along the Jordan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then Caleb silenced the people before Moses and said, “We should go up and take possession of the land, for we can certainly do it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_13_31"> <sup>31</sup>But the men who had gone up with him said, “We can’t attack those people; they are stronger than we are.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_32"><sup>32</sup>And they spread among the Israelites a bad report about the land they had explored. They said, “The land we explored devours those living in it. All the people we saw there are of great size. </span>
<span class="verse dan_13_33"><sup>33</sup>We saw the Nephilim there (the descendants of Anak come from the Nephilim). We seemed like grasshoppers in our own eyes, and we looked the same to them.” <br/></span>
