---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>Supplementary Offerings </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_2"><sup>2</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘After you enter the land I am giving you as a home </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_3"><sup>3</sup>and you present to the Lord food offerings from the herd or the flock, as an aroma pleasing to the Lord—whether burnt offerings or sacrifices, for special vows or freewill offerings or festival offerings— </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_4"><sup>4</sup>then the person who brings an offering shall present to the Lord a grain offering of a tenth of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3 1/2 pounds or about 1.6 kilograms">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with a quarter of a hin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 quart or about 1 liter; also in verse 5">⚓</a> of olive oil. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_5"><sup>5</sup>With each lamb for the burnt offering or the sacrifice, prepare a quarter of a hin of wine as a drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_15_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘With a ram prepare a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 7 pounds or about 3.2 kilograms">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with a third of a hin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 1/3 quarts or about 1.3 liters; also in verse 7">⚓</a> of olive oil, </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_7"><sup>7</sup>and a third of a hin of wine as a drink offering. Offer it as an aroma pleasing to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_15_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘When you prepare a young bull as a burnt offering or sacrifice, for a special vow or a fellowship offering to the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_9"><sup>9</sup>bring with the bull a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 11 pounds or about 5 kilograms">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with half a hin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 2 quarts or about 1.9 liters; also in verse 10">⚓</a> of olive oil, </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_10"><sup>10</sup>and also bring half a hin of wine as a drink offering. This will be a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_11"><sup>11</sup>Each bull or ram, each lamb or young goat, is to be prepared in this manner. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_12"><sup>12</sup>Do this for each one, for as many as you prepare. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_15_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Everyone who is native-born must do these things in this way when they present a food offering as an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_14"><sup>14</sup>For the generations to come, whenever a foreigner or anyone else living among you presents a food offering as an aroma pleasing to the Lord, they must do exactly as you do. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_15"><sup>15</sup>The community is to have the same rules for you and for the foreigner residing among you; this is a lasting ordinance for the generations to come. You and the foreigner shall be the same before the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_16"><sup>16</sup>The same laws and regulations will apply both to you and to the foreigner residing among you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_15_17"> <sup>17</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_18"><sup>18</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘When you enter the land to which I am taking you </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_19"><sup>19</sup>and you eat the food of the land, present a portion as an offering to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_20"><sup>20</sup>Present a loaf from the first of your ground meal and present it as an offering from the threshing floor. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_21"><sup>21</sup>Throughout the generations to come you are to give this offering to the Lord from the first of your ground meal. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Offerings for Unintentional Sins </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_15_22"> <sup>22</sup>“ ‘Now if you as a community unintentionally fail to keep any of these commands the Lord gave Moses— </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_23"><sup>23</sup>any of the Lord’s commands to you through him, from the day the Lord gave them and continuing through the generations to come— </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_24"><sup>24</sup>and if this is done unintentionally without the community being aware of it, then the whole community is to offer a young bull for a burnt offering as an aroma pleasing to the Lord, along with its prescribed grain offering and drink offering, and a male goat for a sin offering.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also in verses 25 and 27">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_15_25"><sup>25</sup>The priest is to make atonement for the whole Israelite community, and they will be forgiven, for it was not intentional and they have presented to the Lord for their wrong a food offering and a sin offering. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_26"><sup>26</sup>The whole Israelite community and the foreigners residing among them will be forgiven, because all the people were involved in the unintentional wrong. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_15_27"> <sup>27</sup>“ ‘But if just one person sins unintentionally, that person must bring a year-old female goat for a sin offering. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_28"><sup>28</sup>The priest is to make atonement before the Lord for the one who erred by sinning unintentionally, and when atonement has been made, that person will be forgiven. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_29"><sup>29</sup>One and the same law applies to everyone who sins unintentionally, whether a native-born Israelite or a foreigner residing among you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_15_30"> <sup>30</sup>“ ‘But anyone who sins defiantly, whether native-born or foreigner, blasphemes the Lord and must be cut off from the people of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_31"><sup>31</sup>Because they have despised the Lord’s word and broken his commands, they must surely be cut off; their guilt remains on them.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Sabbath-Breaker Put to Death </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_15_32"> <sup>32</sup>While the Israelites were in the wilderness, a man was found gathering wood on the Sabbath day. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_33"><sup>33</sup>Those who found him gathering wood brought him to Moses and Aaron and the whole assembly, </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_34"><sup>34</sup>and they kept him in custody, because it was not clear what should be done to him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_35"><sup>35</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “The man must die. The whole assembly must stone him outside the camp.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_36"><sup>36</sup>So the assembly took him outside the camp and stoned him to death, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Tassels on Garments </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_15_37"> <sup>37</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_38"><sup>38</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘Throughout the generations to come you are to make tassels on the corners of your garments, with a blue cord on each tassel. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_39"><sup>39</sup>You will have these tassels to look at and so you will remember all the commands of the Lord, that you may obey them and not prostitute yourselves by chasing after the lusts of your own hearts and eyes. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_40"><sup>40</sup>Then you will remember to obey all my commands and will be consecrated to your God. </span>
<span class="verse dan_15_41"><sup>41</sup>I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt to be your God. I am the Lord your God.’ ” <br/></span>
