---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Korah, Dathan and Abiram </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>Korah son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and certain Reubenites—Dathan and Abiram, sons of Eliab, and On son of Peleth—became insolent<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Peleth—took men">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_2"><sup>2</sup>and rose up against Moses. With them were 250 Israelite men, well-known community leaders who had been appointed members of the council. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_3"><sup>3</sup>They came as a group to oppose Moses and Aaron and said to them, “You have gone too far! The whole community is holy, every one of them, and the Lord is with them. Why then do you set yourselves above the Lord’s assembly?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_4"> <sup>4</sup>When Moses heard this, he fell facedown. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_5"><sup>5</sup>Then he said to Korah and all his followers: “In the morning the Lord will show who belongs to him and who is holy, and he will have that person come near him. The man he chooses he will cause to come near him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_6"><sup>6</sup>You, Korah, and all your followers are to do this: Take censers </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_7"><sup>7</sup>and tomorrow put burning coals and incense in them before the Lord. The man the Lord chooses will be the one who is holy. You Levites have gone too far!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_8"> <sup>8</sup>Moses also said to Korah, “Now listen, you Levites! </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_9"><sup>9</sup>Isn’t it enough for you that the God of Israel has separated you from the rest of the Israelite community and brought you near himself to do the work at the Lord’s tabernacle and to stand before the community and minister to them? </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_10"><sup>10</sup>He has brought you and all your fellow Levites near himself, but now you are trying to get the priesthood too. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_11"><sup>11</sup>It is against the Lord that you and all your followers have banded together. Who is Aaron that you should grumble against him?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then Moses summoned Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab. But they said, “We will not come! </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_13"><sup>13</sup>Isn’t it enough that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey to kill us in the wilderness? And now you also want to lord it over us! </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_14"><sup>14</sup>Moreover, you haven’t brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey or given us an inheritance of fields and vineyards. Do you want to treat these men like slaves<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to deceive these men ; Hebrew Will you gouge out the eyes of these men">⚓</a> ? No, we will not come!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Moses became very angry and said to the Lord, “Do not accept their offering. I have not taken so much as a donkey from them, nor have I wronged any of them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_16"> <sup>16</sup>Moses said to Korah, “You and all your followers are to appear before the Lord tomorrow—you and they and Aaron. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_17"><sup>17</sup>Each man is to take his censer and put incense in it—250 censers in all—and present it before the Lord. You and Aaron are to present your censers also.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_18"><sup>18</sup>So each of them took his censer, put burning coals and incense in it, and stood with Moses and Aaron at the entrance to the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_19"><sup>19</sup>When Korah had gathered all his followers in opposition to them at the entrance to the tent of meeting, the glory of the Lord appeared to the entire assembly. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_20"><sup>20</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_21"><sup>21</sup>“Separate yourselves from this assembly so I can put an end to them at once.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_22"> <sup>22</sup>But Moses and Aaron fell facedown and cried out, “O God, the God who gives breath to all living things, will you be angry with the entire assembly when only one man sins?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_23"> <sup>23</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_24"><sup>24</sup>“Say to the assembly, ‘Move away from the tents of Korah, Dathan and Abiram.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_25"> <sup>25</sup>Moses got up and went to Dathan and Abiram, and the elders of Israel followed him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_26"><sup>26</sup>He warned the assembly, “Move back from the tents of these wicked men! Do not touch anything belonging to them, or you will be swept away because of all their sins.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_27"><sup>27</sup>So they moved away from the tents of Korah, Dathan and Abiram. Dathan and Abiram had come out and were standing with their wives, children and little ones at the entrances to their tents. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then Moses said, “This is how you will know that the Lord has sent me to do all these things and that it was not my idea: </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_29"><sup>29</sup>If these men die a natural death and suffer the fate of all mankind, then the Lord has not sent me. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_30"><sup>30</sup>But if the Lord brings about something totally new, and the earth opens its mouth and swallows them, with everything that belongs to them, and they go down alive into the realm of the dead, then you will know that these men have treated the Lord with contempt.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_31"> <sup>31</sup>As soon as he finished saying all this, the ground under them split apart </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_32"><sup>32</sup>and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them and their households, and all those associated with Korah, together with their possessions. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_33"><sup>33</sup>They went down alive into the realm of the dead, with everything they owned; the earth closed over them, and they perished and were gone from the community. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_34"><sup>34</sup>At their cries, all the Israelites around them fled, shouting, “The earth is going to swallow us too!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_35"> <sup>35</sup>And fire came out from the Lord and consumed the 250 men who were offering the incense. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_36"> <sup>36</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_37"><sup>37</sup>“Tell Eleazar son of Aaron, the priest, to remove the censers from the charred remains and scatter the coals some distance away, for the censers are holy— </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_38"><sup>38</sup>the censers of the men who sinned at the cost of their lives. Hammer the censers into sheets to overlay the altar, for they were presented before the Lord and have become holy. Let them be a sign to the Israelites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_39"> <sup>39</sup>So Eleazar the priest collected the bronze censers brought by those who had been burned to death, and he had them hammered out to overlay the altar, </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_40"><sup>40</sup>as the Lord directed him through Moses. This was to remind the Israelites that no one except a descendant of Aaron should come to burn incense before the Lord, or he would become like Korah and his followers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_41"> <sup>41</sup>The next day the whole Israelite community grumbled against Moses and Aaron. “You have killed the Lord’s people,” they said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_42"> <sup>42</sup>But when the assembly gathered in opposition to Moses and Aaron and turned toward the tent of meeting, suddenly the cloud covered it and the glory of the Lord appeared. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_43"><sup>43</sup>Then Moses and Aaron went to the front of the tent of meeting, </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_44"><sup>44</sup>and the Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_45"><sup>45</sup>“Get away from this assembly so I can put an end to them at once.” And they fell facedown. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_16_46"> <sup>46</sup>Then Moses said to Aaron, “Take your censer and put incense in it, along with burning coals from the altar, and hurry to the assembly to make atonement for them. Wrath has come out from the Lord; the plague has started.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_47"><sup>47</sup>So Aaron did as Moses said, and ran into the midst of the assembly. The plague had already started among the people, but Aaron offered the incense and made atonement for them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_48"><sup>48</sup>He stood between the living and the dead, and the plague stopped. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_49"><sup>49</sup>But 14,700 people died from the plague, in addition to those who had died because of Korah. </span>
<span class="verse dan_16_50"><sup>50</sup>Then Aaron returned to Moses at the entrance to the tent of meeting, for the plague had stopped.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts 16:36-50 is numbered 17:1-15.">⚓</a><br/></span>
