---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>The Budding of Aaron’s Staff </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_17_2"><sup>2</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and get twelve staffs from them, one from the leader of each of their ancestral tribes. Write the name of each man on his staff. </span>
<span class="verse dan_17_3"><sup>3</sup>On the staff of Levi write Aaron’s name, for there must be one staff for the head of each ancestral tribe. </span>
<span class="verse dan_17_4"><sup>4</sup>Place them in the tent of meeting in front of the ark of the covenant law, where I meet with you. </span>
<span class="verse dan_17_5"><sup>5</sup>The staff belonging to the man I choose will sprout, and I will rid myself of this constant grumbling against you by the Israelites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_17_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Moses spoke to the Israelites, and their leaders gave him twelve staffs, one for the leader of each of their ancestral tribes, and Aaron’s staff was among them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_17_7"><sup>7</sup>Moses placed the staffs before the Lord in the tent of the covenant law. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_17_8"> <sup>8</sup>The next day Moses entered the tent and saw that Aaron’s staff, which represented the tribe of Levi, had not only sprouted but had budded, blossomed and produced almonds. </span>
<span class="verse dan_17_9"><sup>9</sup>Then Moses brought out all the staffs from the Lord’s presence to all the Israelites. They looked at them, and each of the leaders took his own staff. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_17_10"> <sup>10</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “Put back Aaron’s staff in front of the ark of the covenant law, to be kept as a sign to the rebellious. This will put an end to their grumbling against me, so that they will not die.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_17_11"><sup>11</sup>Moses did just as the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_17_12"> <sup>12</sup>The Israelites said to Moses, “We will die! We are lost, we are all lost! </span>
<span class="verse dan_17_13"><sup>13</sup>Anyone who even comes near the tabernacle of the Lord will die. Are we all going to die?” <br/></span>
