---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>Water From the Rock </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the first month the whole Israelite community arrived at the Desert of Zin, and they stayed at Kadesh. There Miriam died and was buried. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_2"> <sup>2</sup>Now there was no water for the community, and the people gathered in opposition to Moses and Aaron. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_3"><sup>3</sup>They quarreled with Moses and said, “If only we had died when our brothers fell dead before the Lord! </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_4"><sup>4</sup>Why did you bring the Lord’s community into this wilderness, that we and our livestock should die here? </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_5"><sup>5</sup>Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to this terrible place? It has no grain or figs, grapevines or pomegranates. And there is no water to drink!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_6"> <sup>6</sup>Moses and Aaron went from the assembly to the entrance to the tent of meeting and fell facedown, and the glory of the Lord appeared to them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_7"><sup>7</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_8"><sup>8</sup>“Take the staff, and you and your brother Aaron gather the assembly together. Speak to that rock before their eyes and it will pour out its water. You will bring water out of the rock for the community so they and their livestock can drink.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_9"> <sup>9</sup>So Moses took the staff from the Lord’s presence, just as he commanded him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_10"><sup>10</sup>He and Aaron gathered the assembly together in front of the rock and Moses said to them, “Listen, you rebels, must we bring you water out of this rock?” </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_11"><sup>11</sup>Then Moses raised his arm and struck the rock twice with his staff. Water gushed out, and the community and their livestock drank. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_12"> <sup>12</sup>But the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, “Because you did not trust in me enough to honor me as holy in the sight of the Israelites, you will not bring this community into the land I give them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_13"> <sup>13</sup>These were the waters of Meribah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means quarreling .">⚓</a> where the Israelites quarreled with the Lord and where he was proved holy among them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Edom Denies Israel Passage </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_20_14"> <sup>14</sup>Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom, saying: <br/> “This is what your brother Israel says: You know about all the hardships that have come on us. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_15"><sup>15</sup>Our ancestors went down into Egypt, and we lived there many years. The Egyptians mistreated us and our ancestors, </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_16"><sup>16</sup>but when we cried out to the Lord, he heard our cry and sent an angel and brought us out of Egypt. <br/> “Now we are here at Kadesh, a town on the edge of your territory. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_17"><sup>17</sup>Please let us pass through your country. We will not go through any field or vineyard, or drink water from any well. We will travel along the King’s Highway and not turn to the right or to the left until we have passed through your territory.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_18"> <sup>18</sup>But Edom answered: <br/> “You may not pass through here; if you try, we will march out and attack you with the sword.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_19"> <sup>19</sup>The Israelites replied: <br/> “We will go along the main road, and if we or our livestock drink any of your water, we will pay for it. We only want to pass through on foot—nothing else.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_20"> <sup>20</sup>Again they answered: <br/> “You may not pass through.” <br/> Then Edom came out against them with a large and powerful army. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_21"><sup>21</sup>Since Edom refused to let them go through their territory, Israel turned away from them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Death of Aaron </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_20_22"> <sup>22</sup>The whole Israelite community set out from Kadesh and came to Mount Hor. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_23"><sup>23</sup>At Mount Hor, near the border of Edom, the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_24"><sup>24</sup>“Aaron will be gathered to his people. He will not enter the land I give the Israelites, because both of you rebelled against my command at the waters of Meribah. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_25"><sup>25</sup>Get Aaron and his son Eleazar and take them up Mount Hor. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_26"><sup>26</sup>Remove Aaron’s garments and put them on his son Eleazar, for Aaron will be gathered to his people; he will die there.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_20_27"> <sup>27</sup>Moses did as the Lord commanded: They went up Mount Hor in the sight of the whole community. </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_28"><sup>28</sup>Moses removed Aaron’s garments and put them on his son Eleazar. And Aaron died there on top of the mountain. Then Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain, </span>
<span class="verse dan_20_29"><sup>29</sup>and when the whole community learned that Aaron had died, all the Israelites mourned for him thirty days. <br/></span>
