---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>Arad Destroyed </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the Canaanite king of Arad, who lived in the Negev, heard that Israel was coming along the road to Atharim, he attacked the Israelites and captured some of them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_2"><sup>2</sup>Then Israel made this vow to the Lord: “If you will deliver these people into our hands, we will totally destroy<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them; also in verse 3.">⚓</a> their cities.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_3"><sup>3</sup>The Lord listened to Israel’s plea and gave the Canaanites over to them. They completely destroyed them and their towns; so the place was named Hormah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means destruction .">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Bronze Snake </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_21_4"> <sup>4</sup>They traveled from Mount Hor along the route to the Red Sea,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a> to go around Edom. But the people grew impatient on the way; </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_5"><sup>5</sup>they spoke against God and against Moses, and said, “Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? There is no bread! There is no water! And we detest this miserable food!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then the Lord sent venomous snakes among them; they bit the people and many Israelites died. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_7"><sup>7</sup>The people came to Moses and said, “We sinned when we spoke against the Lord and against you. Pray that the Lord will take the snakes away from us.” So Moses prayed for the people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_8"> <sup>8</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “Make a snake and put it up on a pole; anyone who is bitten can look at it and live.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_9"><sup>9</sup>So Moses made a bronze snake and put it up on a pole. Then when anyone was bitten by a snake and looked at the bronze snake, they lived. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Journey to Moab </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_21_10"> <sup>10</sup>The Israelites moved on and camped at Oboth. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_11"><sup>11</sup>Then they set out from Oboth and camped in Iye Abarim, in the wilderness that faces Moab toward the sunrise. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_12"><sup>12</sup>From there they moved on and camped in the Zered Valley. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_13"><sup>13</sup>They set out from there and camped alongside the Arnon, which is in the wilderness extending into Amorite territory. The Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_14"><sup>14</sup>That is why the Book of the Wars of the Lord says: <br/>  “. . . Zahab<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew Waheb">⚓</a> in Suphah and the ravines, <br/>   the Arnon </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_15">   <sup>15</sup>and<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or “I have been given from Suphah and the ravines / of the Arnon 15to">⚓</a> the slopes of the ravines <br/>  that lead to the settlement of Ar <br/>   and lie along the border of Moab.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_16"><sup>16</sup>From there they continued on to Beer, the well where the Lord said to Moses, “Gather the people together and I will give them water.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then Israel sang this song: <br/>  “Spring up, O well! <br/>   Sing about it, <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_18">  <sup>18</sup>about the well that the princes dug, <br/>   that the nobles of the people sank— <br/>   the nobles with scepters and staffs.” <br/>Then they went from the wilderness to Mattanah, </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_19"><sup>19</sup>from Mattanah to Nahaliel, from Nahaliel to Bamoth, </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_20"><sup>20</sup>and from Bamoth to the valley in Moab where the top of Pisgah overlooks the wasteland. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Defeat of Sihon and Og </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_21_21"> <sup>21</sup>Israel sent messengers to say to Sihon king of the Amorites: <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_22"> <sup>22</sup>“Let us pass through your country. We will not turn aside into any field or vineyard, or drink water from any well. We will travel along the King’s Highway until we have passed through your territory.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_23"> <sup>23</sup>But Sihon would not let Israel pass through his territory. He mustered his entire army and marched out into the wilderness against Israel. When he reached Jahaz, he fought with Israel. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_24"><sup>24</sup>Israel, however, put him to the sword and took over his land from the Arnon to the Jabbok, but only as far as the Ammonites, because their border was fortified. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_25"><sup>25</sup>Israel captured all the cities of the Amorites and occupied them, including Heshbon and all its surrounding settlements. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_26"><sup>26</sup>Heshbon was the city of Sihon king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab and had taken from him all his land as far as the Arnon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_27"> <sup>27</sup>That is why the poets say: <br/>  “Come to Heshbon and let it be rebuilt; <br/>   let Sihon’s city be restored. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_28">  <sup>28</sup>“Fire went out from Heshbon, <br/>   a blaze from the city of Sihon. <br/>  It consumed Ar of Moab, <br/>   the citizens of Arnon’s heights. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_29">  <sup>29</sup>Woe to you, Moab! <br/>   You are destroyed, people of Chemosh! <br/>  He has given up his sons as fugitives <br/>   and his daughters as captives <br/>   to Sihon king of the Amorites. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_30">  <sup>30</sup>“But we have overthrown them; <br/>   Heshbon’s dominion has been destroyed all the way to Dibon. <br/>  We have demolished them as far as Nophah, <br/>   which extends to Medeba.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_31"> <sup>31</sup>So Israel settled in the land of the Amorites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_32"> <sup>32</sup>After Moses had sent spies to Jazer, the Israelites captured its surrounding settlements and drove out the Amorites who were there. </span>
<span class="verse dan_21_33"><sup>33</sup>Then they turned and went up along the road toward Bashan, and Og king of Bashan and his whole army marched out to meet them in battle at Edrei. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_34"> <sup>34</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “Do not be afraid of him, for I have delivered him into your hands, along with his whole army and his land. Do to him what you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_21_35"> <sup>35</sup>So they struck him down, together with his sons and his whole army, leaving them no survivors. And they took possession of his land. <br/></span>
