---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>Balaam’s First Message </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>Balaam said, “Build me seven altars here, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_23_2"><sup>2</sup>Balak did as Balaam said, and the two of them offered a bull and a ram on each altar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then Balaam said to Balak, “Stay here beside your offering while I go aside. Perhaps the Lord will come to meet with me. Whatever he reveals to me I will tell you.” Then he went off to a barren height. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_4"> <sup>4</sup>God met with him, and Balaam said, “I have prepared seven altars, and on each altar I have offered a bull and a ram.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_5"> <sup>5</sup>The Lord put a word in Balaam’s mouth and said, “Go back to Balak and give him this word.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_6"> <sup>6</sup>So he went back to him and found him standing beside his offering, with all the Moabite officials. </span>
<span class="verse dan_23_7"><sup>7</sup>Then Balaam spoke his message: <br/>  “Balak brought me from Aram, <br/>   the king of Moab from the eastern mountains. <br/>  ‘Come,’ he said, ‘curse Jacob for me; <br/>   come, denounce Israel.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_8">  <sup>8</sup>How can I curse <br/>   those whom God has not cursed? <br/>  How can I denounce <br/>   those whom the Lord has not denounced? <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_9">  <sup>9</sup>From the rocky peaks I see them, <br/>   from the heights I view them. <br/>  I see a people who live apart <br/>   and do not consider themselves one of the nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_10">  <sup>10</sup>Who can count the dust of Jacob <br/>   or number even a fourth of Israel? <br/>  Let me die the death of the righteous, <br/>   and may my final end be like theirs!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_11"> <sup>11</sup>Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I brought you to curse my enemies, but you have done nothing but bless them!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_12"> <sup>12</sup>He answered, “Must I not speak what the Lord puts in my mouth?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Balaam’s Second Message </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_23_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then Balak said to him, “Come with me to another place where you can see them; you will not see them all but only the outskirts of their camp. And from there, curse them for me.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_23_14"><sup>14</sup>So he took him to the field of Zophim on the top of Pisgah, and there he built seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each altar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_15"> <sup>15</sup>Balaam said to Balak, “Stay here beside your offering while I meet with him over there.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_16"> <sup>16</sup>The Lord met with Balaam and put a word in his mouth and said, “Go back to Balak and give him this word.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_17"> <sup>17</sup>So he went to him and found him standing beside his offering, with the Moabite officials. Balak asked him, “What did the Lord say?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then he spoke his message: <br/>  “Arise, Balak, and listen; <br/>   hear me, son of Zippor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_19">  <sup>19</sup>God is not human, that he should lie, <br/>   not a human being, that he should change his mind. <br/>  Does he speak and then not act? <br/>   Does he promise and not fulfill? <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_20">  <sup>20</sup>I have received a command to bless; <br/>   he has blessed, and I cannot change it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_21">  <sup>21</sup>“No misfortune is seen in Jacob, <br/>   no misery observed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or He has not looked on Jacob’s offenses / or on the wrongs found">⚓</a> in Israel. <br/>  The Lord their God is with them; <br/>   the shout of the King is among them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_22">  <sup>22</sup>God brought them out of Egypt; <br/>   they have the strength of a wild ox. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_23">  <sup>23</sup>There is no divination against<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a> Jacob, <br/>   no evil omens against<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a> Israel. <br/>  It will now be said of Jacob <br/>   and of Israel, ‘See what God has done!’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_24">  <sup>24</sup>The people rise like a lioness; <br/>   they rouse themselves like a lion <br/>  that does not rest till it devours its prey <br/>   and drinks the blood of its victims.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then Balak said to Balaam, “Neither curse them at all nor bless them at all!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_26"> <sup>26</sup>Balaam answered, “Did I not tell you I must do whatever the Lord says?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Balaam’s Third Message </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_23_27"> <sup>27</sup>Then Balak said to Balaam, “Come, let me take you to another place. Perhaps it will please God to let you curse them for me from there.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_23_28"><sup>28</sup>And Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, overlooking the wasteland. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_23_29"> <sup>29</sup>Balaam said, “Build me seven altars here, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_23_30"><sup>30</sup>Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar. <br/></span>
