---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1><h3>Moab Seduces Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_25_1"> <sup>1</sup>While Israel was staying in Shittim, the men began to indulge in sexual immorality with Moabite women, </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_2"><sup>2</sup>who invited them to the sacrifices to their gods. The people ate the sacrificial meal and bowed down before these gods. </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_3"><sup>3</sup>So Israel yoked themselves to the Baal of Peor. And the Lord’s anger burned against them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_25_4"> <sup>4</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “Take all the leaders of these people, kill them and expose them in broad daylight before the Lord, so that the Lord’s fierce anger may turn away from Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_25_5"> <sup>5</sup>So Moses said to Israel’s judges, “Each of you must put to death those of your people who have yoked themselves to the Baal of Peor.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_25_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then an Israelite man brought into the camp a Midianite woman right before the eyes of Moses and the whole assembly of Israel while they were weeping at the entrance to the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_7"><sup>7</sup>When Phinehas son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, the priest, saw this, he left the assembly, took a spear in his hand </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_8"><sup>8</sup>and followed the Israelite into the tent. He drove the spear into both of them, right through the Israelite man and into the woman’s stomach. Then the plague against the Israelites was stopped; </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_9"><sup>9</sup>but those who died in the plague numbered 24,000. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_25_10"> <sup>10</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_11"><sup>11</sup>“Phinehas son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, the priest, has turned my anger away from the Israelites. Since he was as zealous for my honor among them as I am, I did not put an end to them in my zeal. </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_12"><sup>12</sup>Therefore tell him I am making my covenant of peace with him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_13"><sup>13</sup>He and his descendants will have a covenant of a lasting priesthood, because he was zealous for the honor of his God and made atonement for the Israelites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_25_14"> <sup>14</sup>The name of the Israelite who was killed with the Midianite woman was Zimri son of Salu, the leader of a Simeonite family. </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_15"><sup>15</sup>And the name of the Midianite woman who was put to death was Kozbi daughter of Zur, a tribal chief of a Midianite family. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_25_16"> <sup>16</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_17"><sup>17</sup>“Treat the Midianites as enemies and kill them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_25_18"><sup>18</sup>They treated you as enemies when they deceived you in the Peor incident involving their sister Kozbi, the daughter of a Midianite leader, the woman who was killed when the plague came as a result of that incident.” <br/></span>
