---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\27.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>27</h1><h3>Zelophehad’s Daughters </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_27_1"> <sup>1</sup>The daughters of Zelophehad son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Makir, the son of Manasseh, belonged to the clans of Manasseh son of Joseph. The names of the daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milkah and Tirzah. They came forward </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_2"><sup>2</sup>and stood before Moses, Eleazar the priest, the leaders and the whole assembly at the entrance to the tent of meeting and said, </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_3"><sup>3</sup>“Our father died in the wilderness. He was not among Korah’s followers, who banded together against the Lord, but he died for his own sin and left no sons. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_4"><sup>4</sup>Why should our father’s name disappear from his clan because he had no son? Give us property among our father’s relatives.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_27_5"> <sup>5</sup>So Moses brought their case before the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_6"><sup>6</sup>and the Lord said to him, </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_7"><sup>7</sup>“What Zelophehad’s daughters are saying is right. You must certainly give them property as an inheritance among their father’s relatives and give their father’s inheritance to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_27_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Say to the Israelites, ‘If a man dies and leaves no son, give his inheritance to his daughter. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_9"><sup>9</sup>If he has no daughter, give his inheritance to his brothers. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_10"><sup>10</sup>If he has no brothers, give his inheritance to his father’s brothers. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_11"><sup>11</sup>If his father had no brothers, give his inheritance to the nearest relative in his clan, that he may possess it. This is to have the force of law for the Israelites, as the Lord commanded Moses.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Joshua to Succeed Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_27_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses, “Go up this mountain in the Abarim Range and see the land I have given the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_13"><sup>13</sup>After you have seen it, you too will be gathered to your people, as your brother Aaron was, </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_14"><sup>14</sup>for when the community rebelled at the waters in the Desert of Zin, both of you disobeyed my command to honor me as holy before their eyes.” (These were the waters of Meribah Kadesh, in the Desert of Zin.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_27_15"> <sup>15</sup>Moses said to the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_16"><sup>16</sup>“May the Lord, the God who gives breath to all living things, appoint someone over this community </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_17"><sup>17</sup>to go out and come in before them, one who will lead them out and bring them in, so the Lord’s people will not be like sheep without a shepherd.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_27_18"> <sup>18</sup>So the Lord said to Moses, “Take Joshua son of Nun, a man in whom is the spirit of leadership,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Spirit">⚓</a> and lay your hand on him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_19"><sup>19</sup>Have him stand before Eleazar the priest and the entire assembly and commission him in their presence. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_20"><sup>20</sup>Give him some of your authority so the whole Israelite community will obey him. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_21"><sup>21</sup>He is to stand before Eleazar the priest, who will obtain decisions for him by inquiring of the Urim before the Lord. At his command he and the entire community of the Israelites will go out, and at his command they will come in.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_27_22"> <sup>22</sup>Moses did as the Lord commanded him. He took Joshua and had him stand before Eleazar the priest and the whole assembly. </span>
<span class="verse dan_27_23"><sup>23</sup>Then he laid his hands on him and commissioned him, as the Lord instructed through Moses. <br/></span>
