---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\28.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>28</h1><h3>Daily Offerings </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_28_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_2"><sup>2</sup>“Give this command to the Israelites and say to them: ‘Make sure that you present to me at the appointed time my food offerings, as an aroma pleasing to me.’ </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_3"><sup>3</sup>Say to them: ‘This is the food offering you are to present to the Lord: two lambs a year old without defect, as a regular burnt offering each day. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_4"><sup>4</sup>Offer one lamb in the morning and the other at twilight, </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_5"><sup>5</sup>together with a grain offering of a tenth of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3 1/2 pounds or about 1.6 kilograms; also in verses 13, 21 and 29">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with a quarter of a hin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 quart or about 1 liter; also in verses 7 and 14">⚓</a> of oil from pressed olives. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_6"><sup>6</sup>This is the regular burnt offering instituted at Mount Sinai as a pleasing aroma, a food offering presented to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_7"><sup>7</sup>The accompanying drink offering is to be a quarter of a hin of fermented drink with each lamb. Pour out the drink offering to the Lord at the sanctuary. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_8"><sup>8</sup>Offer the second lamb at twilight, along with the same kind of grain offering and drink offering that you offer in the morning. This is a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Sabbath Offerings </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_28_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘On the Sabbath day, make an offering of two lambs a year old without defect, together with its drink offering and a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 7 pounds or about 3.2 kilograms; also in verses 12, 20 and 28">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with olive oil. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_10"><sup>10</sup>This is the burnt offering for every Sabbath, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Monthly Offerings </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_28_11"> <sup>11</sup>“ ‘On the first of every month, present to the Lord a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_12"><sup>12</sup>With each bull there is to be a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 11 pounds or about 5 kilograms; also in verses 20 and 28">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with oil; with the ram, a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_13"><sup>13</sup>and with each lamb, a grain offering of a tenth of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil. This is for a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma, a food offering presented to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_14"><sup>14</sup>With each bull there is to be a drink offering of half a hin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 2 quarts or about 1.9 liters">⚓</a> of wine; with the ram, a third of a hin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 1/3 quarts or about 1.3 liters">⚓</a> ; and with each lamb, a quarter of a hin. This is the monthly burnt offering to be made at each new moon during the year. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_15"><sup>15</sup>Besides the regular burnt offering with its drink offering, one male goat is to be presented to the Lord as a sin offering.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also in verse 22">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Passover </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_28_16"> <sup>16</sup>“ ‘On the fourteenth day of the first month the Lord’s Passover is to be held. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_17"><sup>17</sup>On the fifteenth day of this month there is to be a festival; for seven days eat bread made without yeast. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_18"><sup>18</sup>On the first day hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_19"><sup>19</sup>Present to the Lord a food offering consisting of a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_20"><sup>20</sup>With each bull offer a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; with the ram, two-tenths; </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_21"><sup>21</sup>and with each of the seven lambs, one-tenth. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_22"><sup>22</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering to make atonement for you. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_23"><sup>23</sup>Offer these in addition to the regular morning burnt offering. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_24"><sup>24</sup>In this way present the food offering every day for seven days as an aroma pleasing to the Lord; it is to be offered in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_25"><sup>25</sup>On the seventh day hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Festival of Weeks </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_28_26"> <sup>26</sup>“ ‘On the day of firstfruits, when you present to the Lord an offering of new grain during the Festival of Weeks, hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_27"><sup>27</sup>Present a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram and seven male lambs a year old as an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_28"><sup>28</sup>With each bull there is to be a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; with the ram, two-tenths; </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_29"><sup>29</sup>and with each of the seven lambs, one-tenth. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_30"><sup>30</sup>Include one male goat to make atonement for you. </span>
<span class="verse dan_28_31"><sup>31</sup>Offer these together with their drink offerings, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its grain offering. Be sure the animals are without defect. <br/></span>
