---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\29.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>29</h1><h3>The Festival of Trumpets </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_29_1"> <sup>1</sup>“ ‘On the first day of the seventh month hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work. It is a day for you to sound the trumpets. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_2"><sup>2</sup>As an aroma pleasing to the Lord, offer a burnt offering of one young bull, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_3"><sup>3</sup>With the bull offer a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 11 pounds or about 5 kilograms; also in verses 9 and 14">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with olive oil; with the ram, two-tenths<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 7 pounds or about 3.2 kilograms; also in verses 9 and 14">⚓</a> ; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_4"><sup>4</sup>and with each of the seven lambs, one-tenth.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3 1/2 pounds or about 1.6 kilograms; also in verses 10 and 15">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_5"><sup>5</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also elsewhere in this chapter">⚓</a> to make atonement for you. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_6"><sup>6</sup>These are in addition to the monthly and daily burnt offerings with their grain offerings and drink offerings as specified. They are food offerings presented to the Lord, a pleasing aroma. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Day of Atonement </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_29_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘On the tenth day of this seventh month hold a sacred assembly. You must deny yourselves<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or must fast">⚓</a> and do no work. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_8"><sup>8</sup>Present as an aroma pleasing to the Lord a burnt offering of one young bull, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_9"><sup>9</sup>With the bull offer a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; with the ram, two-tenths; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_10"><sup>10</sup>and with each of the seven lambs, one-tenth. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_11"><sup>11</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the sin offering for atonement and the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Festival of Tabernacles </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_29_12"> <sup>12</sup>“ ‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work. Celebrate a festival to the Lord for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_13"><sup>13</sup>Present as an aroma pleasing to the Lord a food offering consisting of a burnt offering of thirteen young bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_14"><sup>14</sup>With each of the thirteen bulls offer a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; with each of the two rams, two-tenths; </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_15"><sup>15</sup>and with each of the fourteen lambs, one-tenth. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_16"><sup>16</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘On the second day offer twelve young bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_18"><sup>18</sup>With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_19"><sup>19</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_20"> <sup>20</sup>“ ‘On the third day offer eleven bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_21"><sup>21</sup>With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_22"><sup>22</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_23"> <sup>23</sup>“ ‘On the fourth day offer ten bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_24"><sup>24</sup>With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_25"><sup>25</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_26"> <sup>26</sup>“ ‘On the fifth day offer nine bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_27"><sup>27</sup>With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_28"><sup>28</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_29"> <sup>29</sup>“ ‘On the sixth day offer eight bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_30"><sup>30</sup>With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_31"><sup>31</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_32"> <sup>32</sup>“ ‘On the seventh day offer seven bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_33"><sup>33</sup>With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_34"><sup>34</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_35"> <sup>35</sup>“ ‘On the eighth day hold a closing special assembly and do no regular work. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_36"><sup>36</sup>Present as an aroma pleasing to the Lord a food offering consisting of a burnt offering of one bull, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_37"><sup>37</sup>With the bull, the ram and the lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified. </span>
<span class="verse dan_29_38"><sup>38</sup>Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_39"> <sup>39</sup>“ ‘In addition to what you vow and your freewill offerings, offer these to the Lord at your appointed festivals: your burnt offerings, grain offerings, drink offerings and fellowship offerings.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_29_40"> <sup>40</sup>Moses told the Israelites all that the Lord commanded him.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts this verse (29:40) is numbered 30:1.">⚓</a><br/></span>
