---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\30.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1><h3>Vows </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_30_1"> <sup>1</sup>Moses said to the heads of the tribes of Israel: “This is what the Lord commands: </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_2"><sup>2</sup>When a man makes a vow to the Lord or takes an oath to obligate himself by a pledge, he must not break his word but must do everything he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_3"> <sup>3</sup>“When a young woman still living in her father’s household makes a vow to the Lord or obligates herself by a pledge </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_4"><sup>4</sup>and her father hears about her vow or pledge but says nothing to her, then all her vows and every pledge by which she obligated herself will stand. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_5"><sup>5</sup>But if her father forbids her when he hears about it, none of her vows or the pledges by which she obligated herself will stand; the Lord will release her because her father has forbidden her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_6"> <sup>6</sup>“If she marries after she makes a vow or after her lips utter a rash promise by which she obligates herself </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_7"><sup>7</sup>and her husband hears about it but says nothing to her, then her vows or the pledges by which she obligated herself will stand. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_8"><sup>8</sup>But if her husband forbids her when he hears about it, he nullifies the vow that obligates her or the rash promise by which she obligates herself, and the Lord will release her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Any vow or obligation taken by a widow or divorced woman will be binding on her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_10"> <sup>10</sup>“If a woman living with her husband makes a vow or obligates herself by a pledge under oath </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_11"><sup>11</sup>and her husband hears about it but says nothing to her and does not forbid her, then all her vows or the pledges by which she obligated herself will stand. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_12"><sup>12</sup>But if her husband nullifies them when he hears about them, then none of the vows or pledges that came from her lips will stand. Her husband has nullified them, and the Lord will release her. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_13"><sup>13</sup>Her husband may confirm or nullify any vow she makes or any sworn pledge to deny herself.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to fast">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_14"><sup>14</sup>But if her husband says nothing to her about it from day to day, then he confirms all her vows or the pledges binding on her. He confirms them by saying nothing to her when he hears about them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_30_15"><sup>15</sup>If, however, he nullifies them some time after he hears about them, then he must bear the consequences of her wrongdoing.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_30_16"> <sup>16</sup>These are the regulations the Lord gave Moses concerning relationships between a man and his wife, and between a father and his young daughter still living at home. <br/></span>
