---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\31.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>31</h1><h3>Vengeance on the Midianites </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_31_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_2"><sup>2</sup>“Take vengeance on the Midianites for the Israelites. After that, you will be gathered to your people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_3"> <sup>3</sup>So Moses said to the people, “Arm some of your men to go to war against the Midianites so that they may carry out the Lord’s vengeance on them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_4"><sup>4</sup>Send into battle a thousand men from each of the tribes of Israel.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_5"><sup>5</sup>So twelve thousand men armed for battle, a thousand from each tribe, were supplied from the clans of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_6"><sup>6</sup>Moses sent them into battle, a thousand from each tribe, along with Phinehas son of Eleazar, the priest, who took with him articles from the sanctuary and the trumpets for signaling. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_7"> <sup>7</sup>They fought against Midian, as the Lord commanded Moses, and killed every man. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_8"><sup>8</sup>Among their victims were Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur and Reba—the five kings of Midian. They also killed Balaam son of Beor with the sword. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_9"><sup>9</sup>The Israelites captured the Midianite women and children and took all the Midianite herds, flocks and goods as plunder. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_10"><sup>10</sup>They burned all the towns where the Midianites had settled, as well as all their camps. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_11"><sup>11</sup>They took all the plunder and spoils, including the people and animals, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_12"><sup>12</sup>and brought the captives, spoils and plunder to Moses and Eleazar the priest and the Israelite assembly at their camp on the plains of Moab, by the Jordan across from Jericho. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_13"> <sup>13</sup>Moses, Eleazar the priest and all the leaders of the community went to meet them outside the camp. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_14"><sup>14</sup>Moses was angry with the officers of the army—the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds—who returned from the battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Have you allowed all the women to live?” he asked them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_16"><sup>16</sup>“They were the ones who followed Balaam’s advice and enticed the Israelites to be unfaithful to the Lord in the Peor incident, so that a plague struck the Lord’s people. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_17"><sup>17</sup>Now kill all the boys. And kill every woman who has slept with a man, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_18"><sup>18</sup>but save for yourselves every girl who has never slept with a man. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Anyone who has killed someone or touched someone who was killed must stay outside the camp seven days. On the third and seventh days you must purify yourselves and your captives. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_20"><sup>20</sup>Purify every garment as well as everything made of leather, goat hair or wood.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then Eleazar the priest said to the soldiers who had gone into battle, “This is what is required by the law that the Lord gave Moses: </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_22"><sup>22</sup>Gold, silver, bronze, iron, tin, lead </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_23"><sup>23</sup>and anything else that can withstand fire must be put through the fire, and then it will be clean. But it must also be purified with the water of cleansing. And whatever cannot withstand fire must be put through that water. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_24"><sup>24</sup>On the seventh day wash your clothes and you will be clean. Then you may come into the camp.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Dividing the Spoils </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_31_25"> <sup>25</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_26"><sup>26</sup>“You and Eleazar the priest and the family heads of the community are to count all the people and animals that were captured. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_27"><sup>27</sup>Divide the spoils equally between the soldiers who took part in the battle and the rest of the community. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_28"><sup>28</sup>From the soldiers who fought in the battle, set apart as tribute for the Lord one out of every five hundred, whether people, cattle, donkeys or sheep. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_29"><sup>29</sup>Take this tribute from their half share and give it to Eleazar the priest as the Lord’s part. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_30"><sup>30</sup>From the Israelites’ half, select one out of every fifty, whether people, cattle, donkeys, sheep or other animals. Give them to the Levites, who are responsible for the care of the Lord’s tabernacle.” </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_31"><sup>31</sup>So Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_32"> <sup>32</sup>The plunder remaining from the spoils that the soldiers took was 675,000 sheep, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_33"><sup>33</sup>72,000 cattle, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_34"><sup>34</sup>61,000 donkeys </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_35"><sup>35</sup>and 32,000 women who had never slept with a man. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_36"> <sup>36</sup>The half share of those who fought in the battle was: <br/>  337,500 sheep, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_37"><sup>37</sup>of which the tribute for the Lord was 675; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_38">  <sup>38</sup>36,000 cattle, of which the tribute for the Lord was 72; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_39">  <sup>39</sup>30,500 donkeys, of which the tribute for the Lord was 61; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_40">  <sup>40</sup>16,000 people, of whom the tribute for the Lord was 32. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_41"> <sup>41</sup>Moses gave the tribute to Eleazar the priest as the Lord’s part, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_42"> <sup>42</sup>The half belonging to the Israelites, which Moses set apart from that of the fighting men— </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_43"><sup>43</sup>the community’s half—was 337,500 sheep, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_44"><sup>44</sup>36,000 cattle, </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_45"><sup>45</sup>30,500 donkeys </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_46"><sup>46</sup>and 16,000 people. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_47"><sup>47</sup>From the Israelites’ half, Moses selected one out of every fifty people and animals, as the Lord commanded him, and gave them to the Levites, who were responsible for the care of the Lord’s tabernacle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_48"> <sup>48</sup>Then the officers who were over the units of the army—the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds—went to Moses </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_49"><sup>49</sup>and said to him, “Your servants have counted the soldiers under our command, and not one is missing. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_50"><sup>50</sup>So we have brought as an offering to the Lord the gold articles each of us acquired—armlets, bracelets, signet rings, earrings and necklaces—to make atonement for ourselves before the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_51"> <sup>51</sup>Moses and Eleazar the priest accepted from them the gold—all the crafted articles. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_52"><sup>52</sup>All the gold from the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds that Moses and Eleazar presented as a gift to the Lord weighed 16,750 shekels.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 420 pounds or about 190 kilograms">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_31_53"><sup>53</sup>Each soldier had taken plunder for himself. </span>
<span class="verse dan_31_54"><sup>54</sup>Moses and Eleazar the priest accepted the gold from the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds and brought it into the tent of meeting as a memorial for the Israelites before the Lord. <br/></span>
