---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\32.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>32</h1><h3>The Transjordan Tribes </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_32_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Reubenites and Gadites, who had very large herds and flocks, saw that the lands of Jazer and Gilead were suitable for livestock. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_2"><sup>2</sup>So they came to Moses and Eleazar the priest and to the leaders of the community, and said, </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_3"><sup>3</sup>“Ataroth, Dibon, Jazer, Nimrah, Heshbon, Elealeh, Sebam, Nebo and Beon— </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_4"><sup>4</sup>the land the Lord subdued before the people of Israel—are suitable for livestock, and your servants have livestock. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_5"><sup>5</sup>If we have found favor in your eyes,” they said, “let this land be given to your servants as our possession. Do not make us cross the Jordan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_6"> <sup>6</sup>Moses said to the Gadites and Reubenites, “Should your fellow Israelites go to war while you sit here? </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_7"><sup>7</sup>Why do you discourage the Israelites from crossing over into the land the Lord has given them? </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_8"><sup>8</sup>This is what your fathers did when I sent them from Kadesh Barnea to look over the land. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_9"><sup>9</sup>After they went up to the Valley of Eshkol and viewed the land, they discouraged the Israelites from entering the land the Lord had given them. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_10"><sup>10</sup>The Lord’s anger was aroused that day and he swore this oath: </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_11"><sup>11</sup>‘Because they have not followed me wholeheartedly, not one of those who were twenty years old or more when they came up out of Egypt will see the land I promised on oath to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob— </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_12"><sup>12</sup>not one except Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua son of Nun, for they followed the Lord wholeheartedly.’ </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_13"><sup>13</sup>The Lord’s anger burned against Israel and he made them wander in the wilderness forty years, until the whole generation of those who had done evil in his sight was gone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_14"> <sup>14</sup>“And here you are, a brood of sinners, standing in the place of your fathers and making the Lord even more angry with Israel. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_15"><sup>15</sup>If you turn away from following him, he will again leave all this people in the wilderness, and you will be the cause of their destruction.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then they came up to him and said, “We would like to build pens here for our livestock and cities for our women and children. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_17"><sup>17</sup>But we will arm ourselves for battle<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew will be quick to arm ourselves">⚓</a> and go ahead of the Israelites until we have brought them to their place. Meanwhile our women and children will live in fortified cities, for protection from the inhabitants of the land. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_18"><sup>18</sup>We will not return to our homes until each of the Israelites has received their inheritance. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_19"><sup>19</sup>We will not receive any inheritance with them on the other side of the Jordan, because our inheritance has come to us on the east side of the Jordan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then Moses said to them, “If you will do this—if you will arm yourselves before the Lord for battle </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_21"><sup>21</sup>and if all of you who are armed cross over the Jordan before the Lord until he has driven his enemies out before him— </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_22"><sup>22</sup>then when the land is subdued before the Lord, you may return and be free from your obligation to the Lord and to Israel. And this land will be your possession before the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_23"> <sup>23</sup>“But if you fail to do this, you will be sinning against the Lord; and you may be sure that your sin will find you out. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_24"><sup>24</sup>Build cities for your women and children, and pens for your flocks, but do what you have promised.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_25"> <sup>25</sup>The Gadites and Reubenites said to Moses, “We your servants will do as our lord commands. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_26"><sup>26</sup>Our children and wives, our flocks and herds will remain here in the cities of Gilead. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_27"><sup>27</sup>But your servants, every man who is armed for battle, will cross over to fight before the Lord, just as our lord says.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then Moses gave orders about them to Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and to the family heads of the Israelite tribes. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_29"><sup>29</sup>He said to them, “If the Gadites and Reubenites, every man armed for battle, cross over the Jordan with you before the Lord, then when the land is subdued before you, you must give them the land of Gilead as their possession. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_30"><sup>30</sup>But if they do not cross over with you armed, they must accept their possession with you in Canaan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_31"> <sup>31</sup>The Gadites and Reubenites answered, “Your servants will do what the Lord has said. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_32"><sup>32</sup>We will cross over before the Lord into Canaan armed, but the property we inherit will be on this side of the Jordan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_33"> <sup>33</sup>Then Moses gave to the Gadites, the Reubenites and the half-tribe of Manasseh son of Joseph the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan—the whole land with its cities and the territory around them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_34"> <sup>34</sup>The Gadites built up Dibon, Ataroth, Aroer, </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_35"><sup>35</sup>Atroth Shophan, Jazer, Jogbehah, </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_36"><sup>36</sup>Beth Nimrah and Beth Haran as fortified cities, and built pens for their flocks. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_37"><sup>37</sup>And the Reubenites rebuilt Heshbon, Elealeh and Kiriathaim, </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_38"><sup>38</sup>as well as Nebo and Baal Meon (these names were changed) and Sibmah. They gave names to the cities they rebuilt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_39"> <sup>39</sup>The descendants of Makir son of Manasseh went to Gilead, captured it and drove out the Amorites who were there. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_40"><sup>40</sup>So Moses gave Gilead to the Makirites, the descendants of Manasseh, and they settled there. </span>
<span class="verse dan_32_41"><sup>41</sup>Jair, a descendant of Manasseh, captured their settlements and called them Havvoth Jair.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or them the settlements of Jair">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_32_42"><sup>42</sup>And Nobah captured Kenath and its surrounding settlements and called it Nobah after himself. <br/></span>
