---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Numbers 
bookNumber: 4
audio: \Audio\NIV\dan\34.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>34</h1><h3>Boundaries of Canaan </h3></div>
<span class="verse dan_34_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_2"><sup>2</sup>“Command the Israelites and say to them: ‘When you enter Canaan, the land that will be allotted to you as an inheritance is to have these boundaries: <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_3"> <sup>3</sup>“ ‘Your southern side will include some of the Desert of Zin along the border of Edom. Your southern boundary will start in the east from the southern end of the Dead Sea, </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_4"><sup>4</sup>cross south of Scorpion Pass, continue on to Zin and go south of Kadesh Barnea. Then it will go to Hazar Addar and over to Azmon, </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_5"><sup>5</sup>where it will turn, join the Wadi of Egypt and end at the Mediterranean Sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘Your western boundary will be the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. This will be your boundary on the west. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘For your northern boundary, run a line from the Mediterranean Sea to Mount Hor </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_8"><sup>8</sup>and from Mount Hor to Lebo Hamath. Then the boundary will go to Zedad, </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_9"><sup>9</sup>continue to Ziphron and end at Hazar Enan. This will be your boundary on the north. <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘For your eastern boundary, run a line from Hazar Enan to Shepham. </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_11"><sup>11</sup>The boundary will go down from Shepham to Riblah on the east side of Ain and continue along the slopes east of the Sea of Galilee.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Kinnereth">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_12"><sup>12</sup>Then the boundary will go down along the Jordan and end at the Dead Sea. <br/> “ ‘This will be your land, with its boundaries on every side.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_13"> <sup>13</sup>Moses commanded the Israelites: “Assign this land by lot as an inheritance. The Lord has ordered that it be given to the nine-and-a-half tribes, </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_14"><sup>14</sup>because the families of the tribe of Reuben, the tribe of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance. </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_15"><sup>15</sup>These two-and-a-half tribes have received their inheritance east of the Jordan across from Jericho, toward the sunrise.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_16"> <sup>16</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_17"><sup>17</sup>“These are the names of the men who are to assign the land for you as an inheritance: Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun. </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_18"><sup>18</sup>And appoint one leader from each tribe to help assign the land. </span>
<span class="verse dan_34_19"><sup>19</sup>These are their names: <br/>  Caleb son of Jephunneh, <br/>    from the tribe of Judah; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_20">  <sup>20</sup>Shemuel son of Ammihud, <br/>    from the tribe of Simeon; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_21">  <sup>21</sup>Elidad son of Kislon, <br/>    from the tribe of Benjamin; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_22">  <sup>22</sup>Bukki son of Jogli, <br/>    the leader from the tribe of Dan; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_23">  <sup>23</sup>Hanniel son of Ephod, <br/>    the leader from the tribe of Manasseh son of Joseph; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_24">  <sup>24</sup>Kemuel son of Shiphtan, <br/>    the leader from the tribe of Ephraim son of Joseph; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_25">  <sup>25</sup>Elizaphan son of Parnak, <br/>    the leader from the tribe of Zebulun; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_26">  <sup>26</sup>Paltiel son of Azzan, <br/>    the leader from the tribe of Issachar; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_27">  <sup>27</sup>Ahihud son of Shelomi, <br/>    the leader from the tribe of Asher; <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_28">  <sup>28</sup>Pedahel son of Ammihud, <br/>    the leader from the tribe of Naphtali.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse dan_34_29"> <sup>29</sup>These are the men the Lord commanded to assign the inheritance to the Israelites in the land of Canaan. <br/></span>
