---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>The Burnt Offering </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord called to Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting. He said, </span>
<span class="verse le_1_2"><sup>2</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘When anyone among you brings an offering to the Lord, bring as your offering an animal from either the herd or the flock. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>“ ‘If the offering is a burnt offering from the herd, you are to offer a male without defect. You must present it at the entrance to the tent of meeting so that it will be acceptable to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_4"><sup>4</sup>You are to lay your hand on the head of the burnt offering, and it will be accepted on your behalf to make atonement for you. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_5"><sup>5</sup>You are to slaughter the young bull before the Lord, and then Aaron’s sons the priests shall bring the blood and splash it against the sides of the altar at the entrance to the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_6"><sup>6</sup>You are to skin the burnt offering and cut it into pieces. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_7"><sup>7</sup>The sons of Aaron the priest are to put fire on the altar and arrange wood on the fire. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_8"><sup>8</sup>Then Aaron’s sons the priests shall arrange the pieces, including the head and the fat, on the wood that is burning on the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_9"><sup>9</sup>You are to wash the internal organs and the legs with water, and the priest is to burn all of it on the altar. It is a burnt offering, a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘If the offering is a burnt offering from the flock, from either the sheep or the goats, you are to offer a male without defect. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_11"><sup>11</sup>You are to slaughter it at the north side of the altar before the Lord, and Aaron’s sons the priests shall splash its blood against the sides of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_12"><sup>12</sup>You are to cut it into pieces, and the priest shall arrange them, including the head and the fat, on the wood that is burning on the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_13"><sup>13</sup>You are to wash the internal organs and the legs with water, and the priest is to bring all of them and burn them on the altar. It is a burnt offering, a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_1_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘If the offering to the Lord is a burnt offering of birds, you are to offer a dove or a young pigeon. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_15"><sup>15</sup>The priest shall bring it to the altar, wring off the head and burn it on the altar; its blood shall be drained out on the side of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_16"><sup>16</sup>He is to remove the crop and the feathers<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or crop with its contents ; the meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> and throw them down east of the altar where the ashes are. </span>
<span class="verse le_1_17"><sup>17</sup>He shall tear it open by the wings, not dividing it completely, and then the priest shall burn it on the wood that is burning on the altar. It is a burnt offering, a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. <br/></span>
