---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>The Grain Offering </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>“ ‘When anyone brings a grain offering to the Lord, their offering is to be of the finest flour. They are to pour olive oil on it, put incense on it </span>
<span class="verse le_2_2"><sup>2</sup>and take it to Aaron’s sons the priests. The priest shall take a handful of the flour and oil, together with all the incense, and burn this as a memorial<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or representative ; also in verses 9 and 16">⚓</a> portion on the altar, a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_3"><sup>3</sup>The rest of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the food offerings presented to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>“ ‘If you bring a grain offering baked in an oven, it is to consist of the finest flour: either thick loaves made without yeast and with olive oil mixed in or thin loaves made without yeast and brushed with olive oil. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_5"><sup>5</sup>If your grain offering is prepared on a griddle, it is to be made of the finest flour mixed with oil, and without yeast. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_6"><sup>6</sup>Crumble it and pour oil on it; it is a grain offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_7"><sup>7</sup>If your grain offering is cooked in a pan, it is to be made of the finest flour and some olive oil. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_8"><sup>8</sup>Bring the grain offering made of these things to the Lord; present it to the priest, who shall take it to the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_9"><sup>9</sup>He shall take out the memorial portion from the grain offering and burn it on the altar as a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_10"><sup>10</sup>The rest of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the food offerings presented to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>“ ‘Every grain offering you bring to the Lord must be made without yeast, for you are not to burn any yeast or honey in a food offering presented to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_12"><sup>12</sup>You may bring them to the Lord as an offering of the firstfruits, but they are not to be offered on the altar as a pleasing aroma. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_13"><sup>13</sup>Season all your grain offerings with salt. Do not leave the salt of the covenant of your God out of your grain offerings; add salt to all your offerings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘If you bring a grain offering of firstfruits to the Lord, offer crushed heads of new grain roasted in the fire. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_15"><sup>15</sup>Put oil and incense on it; it is a grain offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_2_16"><sup>16</sup>The priest shall burn the memorial portion of the crushed grain and the oil, together with all the incense, as a food offering presented to the Lord. <br/></span>
