---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>The Fellowship Offering </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>“ ‘If your offering is a fellowship offering, and you offer an animal from the herd, whether male or female, you are to present before the Lord an animal without defect. </span>
<span class="verse le_3_2"><sup>2</sup>You are to lay your hand on the head of your offering and slaughter it at the entrance to the tent of meeting. Then Aaron’s sons the priests shall splash the blood against the sides of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_3_3"><sup>3</sup>From the fellowship offering you are to bring a food offering to the Lord: the internal organs and all the fat that is connected to them, </span>
<span class="verse le_3_4"><sup>4</sup>both kidneys with the fat on them near the loins, and the long lobe of the liver, which you will remove with the kidneys. </span>
<span class="verse le_3_5"><sup>5</sup>Then Aaron’s sons are to burn it on the altar on top of the burnt offering that is lying on the burning wood; it is a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_3_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘If you offer an animal from the flock as a fellowship offering to the Lord, you are to offer a male or female without defect. </span>
<span class="verse le_3_7"><sup>7</sup>If you offer a lamb, you are to present it before the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse le_3_8"><sup>8</sup>lay your hand on its head and slaughter it in front of the tent of meeting. Then Aaron’s sons shall splash its blood against the sides of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_3_9"><sup>9</sup>From the fellowship offering you are to bring a food offering to the Lord: its fat, the entire fat tail cut off close to the backbone, the internal organs and all the fat that is connected to them, </span>
<span class="verse le_3_10"><sup>10</sup>both kidneys with the fat on them near the loins, and the long lobe of the liver, which you will remove with the kidneys. </span>
<span class="verse le_3_11"><sup>11</sup>The priest shall burn them on the altar as a food offering presented to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>“ ‘If your offering is a goat, you are to present it before the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse le_3_13"><sup>13</sup>lay your hand on its head and slaughter it in front of the tent of meeting. Then Aaron’s sons shall splash its blood against the sides of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_3_14"><sup>14</sup>From what you offer you are to present this food offering to the Lord: the internal organs and all the fat that is connected to them, </span>
<span class="verse le_3_15"><sup>15</sup>both kidneys with the fat on them near the loins, and the long lobe of the liver, which you will remove with the kidneys. </span>
<span class="verse le_3_16"><sup>16</sup>The priest shall burn them on the altar as a food offering, a pleasing aroma. All the fat is the Lord’s. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_3_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘This is a lasting ordinance for the generations to come, wherever you live: You must not eat any fat or any blood.’ ” <br/></span>
