---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1></div>
<span class="verse le_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>“ ‘If anyone sins because they do not speak up when they hear a public charge to testify regarding something they have seen or learned about, they will be held responsible. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_5_2"> <sup>2</sup>“ ‘If anyone becomes aware that they are guilty—if they unwittingly touch anything ceremonially unclean (whether the carcass of an unclean animal, wild or domestic, or of any unclean creature that moves along the ground) and they are unaware that they have become unclean, but then they come to realize their guilt; </span>
<span class="verse le_5_3"><sup>3</sup>or if they touch human uncleanness (anything that would make them unclean) even though they are unaware of it, but then they learn of it and realize their guilt; </span>
<span class="verse le_5_4"><sup>4</sup>or if anyone thoughtlessly takes an oath to do anything, whether good or evil (in any matter one might carelessly swear about) even though they are unaware of it, but then they learn of it and realize their guilt— </span>
<span class="verse le_5_5"><sup>5</sup>when anyone becomes aware that they are guilty in any of these matters, they must confess in what way they have sinned. </span>
<span class="verse le_5_6"><sup>6</sup>As a penalty for the sin they have committed, they must bring to the Lord a female lamb or goat from the flock as a sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; here and throughout this chapter">⚓</a> ; and the priest shall make atonement for them for their sin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_5_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘Anyone who cannot afford a lamb is to bring two doves or two young pigeons to the Lord as a penalty for their sin—one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_5_8"><sup>8</sup>They are to bring them to the priest, who shall first offer the one for the sin offering. He is to wring its head from its neck, not dividing it completely, </span>
<span class="verse le_5_9"><sup>9</sup>and is to splash some of the blood of the sin offering against the side of the altar; the rest of the blood must be drained out at the base of the altar. It is a sin offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_5_10"><sup>10</sup>The priest shall then offer the other as a burnt offering in the prescribed way and make atonement for them for the sin they have committed, and they will be forgiven. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_5_11"> <sup>11</sup>“ ‘If, however, they cannot afford two doves or two young pigeons, they are to bring as an offering for their sin a tenth of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3 1/2 pounds or about 1.6 kilograms">⚓</a> of the finest flour for a sin offering. They must not put olive oil or incense on it, because it is a sin offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_5_12"><sup>12</sup>They are to bring it to the priest, who shall take a handful of it as a memorial<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or representative">⚓</a> portion and burn it on the altar on top of the food offerings presented to the Lord. It is a sin offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_5_13"><sup>13</sup>In this way the priest will make atonement for them for any of these sins they have committed, and they will be forgiven. The rest of the offering will belong to the priest, as in the case of the grain offering.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Guilt Offering </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_5_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Lord said to Moses: </span>
<span class="verse le_5_15"><sup>15</sup>“When anyone is unfaithful to the Lord by sinning unintentionally in regard to any of the Lord’s holy things, they are to bring to the Lord as a penalty a ram from the flock, one without defect and of the proper value in silver, according to the sanctuary shekel.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 2/5 ounce or about 12 grams">⚓</a> It is a guilt offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_5_16"><sup>16</sup>They must make restitution for what they have failed to do in regard to the holy things, pay an additional penalty of a fifth of its value and give it all to the priest. The priest will make atonement for them with the ram as a guilt offering, and they will be forgiven. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_5_17"> <sup>17</sup>“If anyone sins and does what is forbidden in any of the Lord’s commands, even though they do not know it, they are guilty and will be held responsible. </span>
<span class="verse le_5_18"><sup>18</sup>They are to bring to the priest as a guilt offering a ram from the flock, one without defect and of the proper value. In this way the priest will make atonement for them for the wrong they have committed unintentionally, and they will be forgiven. </span>
<span class="verse le_5_19"><sup>19</sup>It is a guilt offering; they have been guilty of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or offering; atonement has been made for their">⚓</a> wrongdoing against the Lord.” <br/></span>
