---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1></div>
<span class="verse le_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses: </span>
<span class="verse le_6_2"><sup>2</sup>“If anyone sins and is unfaithful to the Lord by deceiving a neighbor about something entrusted to them or left in their care or about something stolen, or if they cheat their neighbor, </span>
<span class="verse le_6_3"><sup>3</sup>or if they find lost property and lie about it, or if they swear falsely about any such sin that people may commit— </span>
<span class="verse le_6_4"><sup>4</sup>when they sin in any of these ways and realize their guilt, they must return what they have stolen or taken by extortion, or what was entrusted to them, or the lost property they found, </span>
<span class="verse le_6_5"><sup>5</sup>or whatever it was they swore falsely about. They must make restitution in full, add a fifth of the value to it and give it all to the owner on the day they present their guilt offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_6"><sup>6</sup>And as a penalty they must bring to the priest, that is, to the Lord, their guilt offering, a ram from the flock, one without defect and of the proper value. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_7"><sup>7</sup>In this way the priest will make atonement for them before the Lord, and they will be forgiven for any of the things they did that made them guilty.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Burnt Offering </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>The Lord said to Moses: </span>
<span class="verse le_6_9"><sup>9</sup>“Give Aaron and his sons this command: ‘These are the regulations for the burnt offering: The burnt offering is to remain on the altar hearth throughout the night, till morning, and the fire must be kept burning on the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_10"><sup>10</sup>The priest shall then put on his linen clothes, with linen undergarments next to his body, and shall remove the ashes of the burnt offering that the fire has consumed on the altar and place them beside the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_11"><sup>11</sup>Then he is to take off these clothes and put on others, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a place that is ceremonially clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_12"><sup>12</sup>The fire on the altar must be kept burning; it must not go out. Every morning the priest is to add firewood and arrange the burnt offering on the fire and burn the fat of the fellowship offerings on it. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_13"><sup>13</sup>The fire must be kept burning on the altar continuously; it must not go out. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Grain Offering </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_6_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘These are the regulations for the grain offering: Aaron’s sons are to bring it before the Lord, in front of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_15"><sup>15</sup>The priest is to take a handful of the finest flour and some olive oil, together with all the incense on the grain offering, and burn the memorial<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or representative">⚓</a> portion on the altar as an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_16"><sup>16</sup>Aaron and his sons shall eat the rest of it, but it is to be eaten without yeast in the sanctuary area; they are to eat it in the courtyard of the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_17"><sup>17</sup>It must not be baked with yeast; I have given it as their share of the food offerings presented to me. Like the sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also in verses 25 and 30">⚓</a> and the guilt offering, it is most holy. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_18"><sup>18</sup>Any male descendant of Aaron may eat it. For all generations to come it is his perpetual share of the food offerings presented to the Lord. Whatever touches them will become holy.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Whoever touches them must be holy ; similarly in verse 27">⚓</a> ’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_6_19"> <sup>19</sup>The Lord also said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_6_20"><sup>20</sup>“This is the offering Aaron and his sons are to bring to the Lord on the day he<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or each">⚓</a> is anointed: a tenth of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3 1/2 pounds or about 1.6 kilograms">⚓</a> of the finest flour as a regular grain offering, half of it in the morning and half in the evening. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_21"><sup>21</sup>It must be prepared with oil on a griddle; bring it well-mixed and present the grain offering broken<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> in pieces as an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_22"><sup>22</sup>The son who is to succeed him as anointed priest shall prepare it. It is the Lord’s perpetual share and is to be burned completely. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_23"><sup>23</sup>Every grain offering of a priest shall be burned completely; it must not be eaten.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Sin Offering </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_6_24"> <sup>24</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_6_25"><sup>25</sup>“Say to Aaron and his sons: ‘These are the regulations for the sin offering: The sin offering is to be slaughtered before the Lord in the place the burnt offering is slaughtered; it is most holy. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_26"><sup>26</sup>The priest who offers it shall eat it; it is to be eaten in the sanctuary area, in the courtyard of the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_27"><sup>27</sup>Whatever touches any of the flesh will become holy, and if any of the blood is spattered on a garment, you must wash it in the sanctuary area. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_28"><sup>28</sup>The clay pot the meat is cooked in must be broken; but if it is cooked in a bronze pot, the pot is to be scoured and rinsed with water. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_29"><sup>29</sup>Any male in a priest’s family may eat it; it is most holy. </span>
<span class="verse le_6_30"><sup>30</sup>But any sin offering whose blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the Holy Place must not be eaten; it must be burned up. <br/></span>
