---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The Ordination of Aaron and His Sons </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_8_2"><sup>2</sup>“Bring Aaron and his sons, their garments, the anointing oil, the bull for the sin offering,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also in verse 14">⚓</a> the two rams and the basket containing bread made without yeast, </span>
<span class="verse le_8_3"><sup>3</sup>and gather the entire assembly at the entrance to the tent of meeting.” </span>
<span class="verse le_8_4"><sup>4</sup>Moses did as the Lord commanded him, and the assembly gathered at the entrance to the tent of meeting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_8_5"> <sup>5</sup>Moses said to the assembly, “This is what the Lord has commanded to be done.” </span>
<span class="verse le_8_6"><sup>6</sup>Then Moses brought Aaron and his sons forward and washed them with water. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_7"><sup>7</sup>He put the tunic on Aaron, tied the sash around him, clothed him with the robe and put the ephod on him. He also fastened the ephod with a decorative waistband, which he tied around him. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_8"><sup>8</sup>He placed the breastpiece on him and put the Urim and Thummim in the breastpiece. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_9"><sup>9</sup>Then he placed the turban on Aaron’s head and set the gold plate, the sacred emblem, on the front of it, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_8_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and everything in it, and so consecrated them. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_11"><sup>11</sup>He sprinkled some of the oil on the altar seven times, anointing the altar and all its utensils and the basin with its stand, to consecrate them. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_12"><sup>12</sup>He poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron’s head and anointed him to consecrate him. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_13"><sup>13</sup>Then he brought Aaron’s sons forward, put tunics on them, tied sashes around them and fastened caps on them, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_8_14"> <sup>14</sup>He then presented the bull for the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on its head. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_15"><sup>15</sup>Moses slaughtered the bull and took some of the blood, and with his finger he put it on all the horns of the altar to purify the altar. He poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. So he consecrated it to make atonement for it. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_16"><sup>16</sup>Moses also took all the fat around the internal organs, the long lobe of the liver, and both kidneys and their fat, and burned it on the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_17"><sup>17</sup>But the bull with its hide and its flesh and its intestines he burned up outside the camp, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_8_18"> <sup>18</sup>He then presented the ram for the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on its head. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_19"><sup>19</sup>Then Moses slaughtered the ram and splashed the blood against the sides of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_20"><sup>20</sup>He cut the ram into pieces and burned the head, the pieces and the fat. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_21"><sup>21</sup>He washed the internal organs and the legs with water and burned the whole ram on the altar. It was a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma, a food offering presented to the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_8_22"> <sup>22</sup>He then presented the other ram, the ram for the ordination, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on its head. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_23"><sup>23</sup>Moses slaughtered the ram and took some of its blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron’s right ear, on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_24"><sup>24</sup>Moses also brought Aaron’s sons forward and put some of the blood on the lobes of their right ears, on the thumbs of their right hands and on the big toes of their right feet. Then he splashed blood against the sides of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_25"><sup>25</sup>After that, he took the fat, the fat tail, all the fat around the internal organs, the long lobe of the liver, both kidneys and their fat and the right thigh. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_26"><sup>26</sup>And from the basket of bread made without yeast, which was before the Lord, he took one thick loaf, one thick loaf with olive oil mixed in, and one thin loaf, and he put these on the fat portions and on the right thigh. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_27"><sup>27</sup>He put all these in the hands of Aaron and his sons, and they waved them before the Lord as a wave offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_28"><sup>28</sup>Then Moses took them from their hands and burned them on the altar on top of the burnt offering as an ordination offering, a pleasing aroma, a food offering presented to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_29"><sup>29</sup>Moses also took the breast, which was his share of the ordination ram, and waved it before the Lord as a wave offering, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_8_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then Moses took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood from the altar and sprinkled them on Aaron and his garments and on his sons and their garments. So he consecrated Aaron and his garments and his sons and their garments. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_8_31"> <sup>31</sup>Moses then said to Aaron and his sons, “Cook the meat at the entrance to the tent of meeting and eat it there with the bread from the basket of ordination offerings, as I was commanded: ‘Aaron and his sons are to eat it.’ </span>
<span class="verse le_8_32"><sup>32</sup>Then burn up the rest of the meat and the bread. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_33"><sup>33</sup>Do not leave the entrance to the tent of meeting for seven days, until the days of your ordination are completed, for your ordination will last seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_34"><sup>34</sup>What has been done today was commanded by the Lord to make atonement for you. </span>
<span class="verse le_8_35"><sup>35</sup>You must stay at the entrance to the tent of meeting day and night for seven days and do what the Lord requires, so you will not die; for that is what I have been commanded.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_8_36"> <sup>36</sup>So Aaron and his sons did everything the Lord commanded through Moses. <br/></span>
