---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>The Priests Begin Their Ministry </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>On the eighth day Moses summoned Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_2"><sup>2</sup>He said to Aaron, “Take a bull calf for your sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; here and throughout this chapter">⚓</a> and a ram for your burnt offering, both without defect, and present them before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_3"><sup>3</sup>Then say to the Israelites: ‘Take a male goat for a sin offering, a calf and a lamb—both a year old and without defect—for a burnt offering, </span>
<span class="verse le_9_4"><sup>4</sup>and an ox<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word can refer to either male or female; also in verses 18 and 19.">⚓</a> and a ram for a fellowship offering to sacrifice before the Lord, together with a grain offering mixed with olive oil. For today the Lord will appear to you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_5"> <sup>5</sup>They took the things Moses commanded to the front of the tent of meeting, and the entire assembly came near and stood before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_6"><sup>6</sup>Then Moses said, “This is what the Lord has commanded you to do, so that the glory of the Lord may appear to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>Moses said to Aaron, “Come to the altar and sacrifice your sin offering and your burnt offering and make atonement for yourself and the people; sacrifice the offering that is for the people and make atonement for them, as the Lord has commanded.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_8"> <sup>8</sup>So Aaron came to the altar and slaughtered the calf as a sin offering for himself. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_9"><sup>9</sup>His sons brought the blood to him, and he dipped his finger into the blood and put it on the horns of the altar; the rest of the blood he poured out at the base of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_10"><sup>10</sup>On the altar he burned the fat, the kidneys and the long lobe of the liver from the sin offering, as the Lord commanded Moses; </span>
<span class="verse le_9_11"><sup>11</sup>the flesh and the hide he burned up outside the camp. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then he slaughtered the burnt offering. His sons handed him the blood, and he splashed it against the sides of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_13"><sup>13</sup>They handed him the burnt offering piece by piece, including the head, and he burned them on the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_14"><sup>14</sup>He washed the internal organs and the legs and burned them on top of the burnt offering on the altar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_15"> <sup>15</sup>Aaron then brought the offering that was for the people. He took the goat for the people’s sin offering and slaughtered it and offered it for a sin offering as he did with the first one. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_16"> <sup>16</sup>He brought the burnt offering and offered it in the prescribed way. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_17"><sup>17</sup>He also brought the grain offering, took a handful of it and burned it on the altar in addition to the morning’s burnt offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_18"> <sup>18</sup>He slaughtered the ox and the ram as the fellowship offering for the people. His sons handed him the blood, and he splashed it against the sides of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_19"><sup>19</sup>But the fat portions of the ox and the ram—the fat tail, the layer of fat, the kidneys and the long lobe of the liver— </span>
<span class="verse le_9_20"><sup>20</sup>these they laid on the breasts, and then Aaron burned the fat on the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_21"><sup>21</sup>Aaron waved the breasts and the right thigh before the Lord as a wave offering, as Moses commanded. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then Aaron lifted his hands toward the people and blessed them. And having sacrificed the sin offering, the burnt offering and the fellowship offering, he stepped down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_9_23"> <sup>23</sup>Moses and Aaron then went into the tent of meeting. When they came out, they blessed the people; and the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. </span>
<span class="verse le_9_24"><sup>24</sup>Fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed the burnt offering and the fat portions on the altar. And when all the people saw it, they shouted for joy and fell facedown. <br/></span>
