---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Death of Nadab and Abihu </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Aaron’s sons Nadab and Abihu took their censers, put fire in them and added incense; and they offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, contrary to his command. </span>
<span class="verse le_10_2"><sup>2</sup>So fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_10_3"><sup>3</sup>Moses then said to Aaron, “This is what the Lord spoke of when he said: <br/>  “ ‘Among those who approach me <br/>   I will be proved holy; <br/>  in the sight of all the people <br/>   I will be honored.’ ” <br/>Aaron remained silent. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_10_4"> <sup>4</sup>Moses summoned Mishael and Elzaphan, sons of Aaron’s uncle Uzziel, and said to them, “Come here; carry your cousins outside the camp, away from the front of the sanctuary.” </span>
<span class="verse le_10_5"><sup>5</sup>So they came and carried them, still in their tunics, outside the camp, as Moses ordered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_10_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then Moses said to Aaron and his sons Eleazar and Ithamar, “Do not let your hair become unkempt<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Do not uncover your heads">⚓</a> and do not tear your clothes, or you will die and the Lord will be angry with the whole community. But your relatives, all the Israelites, may mourn for those the Lord has destroyed by fire. </span>
<span class="verse le_10_7"><sup>7</sup>Do not leave the entrance to the tent of meeting or you will die, because the Lord’s anointing oil is on you.” So they did as Moses said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_10_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then the Lord said to Aaron, </span>
<span class="verse le_10_9"><sup>9</sup>“You and your sons are not to drink wine or other fermented drink whenever you go into the tent of meeting, or you will die. This is a lasting ordinance for the generations to come, </span>
<span class="verse le_10_10"><sup>10</sup>so that you can distinguish between the holy and the common, between the unclean and the clean, </span>
<span class="verse le_10_11"><sup>11</sup>and so you can teach the Israelites all the decrees the Lord has given them through Moses.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>Moses said to Aaron and his remaining sons, Eleazar and Ithamar, “Take the grain offering left over from the food offerings prepared without yeast and presented to the Lord and eat it beside the altar, for it is most holy. </span>
<span class="verse le_10_13"><sup>13</sup>Eat it in the sanctuary area, because it is your share and your sons’ share of the food offerings presented to the Lord; for so I have been commanded. </span>
<span class="verse le_10_14"><sup>14</sup>But you and your sons and your daughters may eat the breast that was waved and the thigh that was presented. Eat them in a ceremonially clean place; they have been given to you and your children as your share of the Israelites’ fellowship offerings. </span>
<span class="verse le_10_15"><sup>15</sup>The thigh that was presented and the breast that was waved must be brought with the fat portions of the food offerings, to be waved before the Lord as a wave offering. This will be the perpetual share for you and your children, as the Lord has commanded.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>When Moses inquired about the goat of the sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also in verses 17 and 19">⚓</a> and found that it had been burned up, he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s remaining sons, and asked, </span>
<span class="verse le_10_17"><sup>17</sup>“Why didn’t you eat the sin offering in the sanctuary area? It is most holy; it was given to you to take away the guilt of the community by making atonement for them before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_10_18"><sup>18</sup>Since its blood was not taken into the Holy Place, you should have eaten the goat in the sanctuary area, as I commanded.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_10_19"> <sup>19</sup>Aaron replied to Moses, “Today they sacrificed their sin offering and their burnt offering before the Lord, but such things as this have happened to me. Would the Lord have been pleased if I had eaten the sin offering today?” </span>
<span class="verse le_10_20"><sup>20</sup>When Moses heard this, he was satisfied. <br/></span>
