---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>Clean and Unclean Food </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, </span>
<span class="verse le_11_2"><sup>2</sup>“Say to the Israelites: ‘Of all the animals that live on land, these are the ones you may eat: </span>
<span class="verse le_11_3"><sup>3</sup>You may eat any animal that has a divided hoof and that chews the cud. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>“ ‘There are some that only chew the cud or only have a divided hoof, but you must not eat them. The camel, though it chews the cud, does not have a divided hoof; it is ceremonially unclean for you. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_5"><sup>5</sup>The hyrax, though it chews the cud, does not have a divided hoof; it is unclean for you. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_6"><sup>6</sup>The rabbit, though it chews the cud, does not have a divided hoof; it is unclean for you. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_7"><sup>7</sup>And the pig, though it has a divided hoof, does not chew the cud; it is unclean for you. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_8"><sup>8</sup>You must not eat their meat or touch their carcasses; they are unclean for you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘Of all the creatures living in the water of the seas and the streams you may eat any that have fins and scales. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_10"><sup>10</sup>But all creatures in the seas or streams that do not have fins and scales—whether among all the swarming things or among all the other living creatures in the water—you are to regard as unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_11"><sup>11</sup>And since you are to regard them as unclean, you must not eat their meat; you must regard their carcasses as unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_12"><sup>12</sup>Anything living in the water that does not have fins and scales is to be regarded as unclean by you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘These are the birds you are to regard as unclean and not eat because they are unclean: the eagle,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The precise identification of some of the birds, insects and animals in this chapter is uncertain.">⚓</a> the vulture, the black vulture, </span>
<span class="verse le_11_14"><sup>14</sup>the red kite, any kind of black kite, </span>
<span class="verse le_11_15"><sup>15</sup>any kind of raven, </span>
<span class="verse le_11_16"><sup>16</sup>the horned owl, the screech owl, the gull, any kind of hawk, </span>
<span class="verse le_11_17"><sup>17</sup>the little owl, the cormorant, the great owl, </span>
<span class="verse le_11_18"><sup>18</sup>the white owl, the desert owl, the osprey, </span>
<span class="verse le_11_19"><sup>19</sup>the stork, any kind of heron, the hoopoe and the bat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_20"> <sup>20</sup>“ ‘All flying insects that walk on all fours are to be regarded as unclean by you. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_21"><sup>21</sup>There are, however, some flying insects that walk on all fours that you may eat: those that have jointed legs for hopping on the ground. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_22"><sup>22</sup>Of these you may eat any kind of locust, katydid, cricket or grasshopper. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_23"><sup>23</sup>But all other flying insects that have four legs you are to regard as unclean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_24"> <sup>24</sup>“ ‘You will make yourselves unclean by these; whoever touches their carcasses will be unclean till evening. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_25"><sup>25</sup>Whoever picks up one of their carcasses must wash their clothes, and they will be unclean till evening. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_26"> <sup>26</sup>“ ‘Every animal that does not have a divided hoof or that does not chew the cud is unclean for you; whoever touches the carcass of any of them will be unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_27"><sup>27</sup>Of all the animals that walk on all fours, those that walk on their paws are unclean for you; whoever touches their carcasses will be unclean till evening. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_28"><sup>28</sup>Anyone who picks up their carcasses must wash their clothes, and they will be unclean till evening. These animals are unclean for you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_29"> <sup>29</sup>“ ‘Of the animals that move along the ground, these are unclean for you: the weasel, the rat, any kind of great lizard, </span>
<span class="verse le_11_30"><sup>30</sup>the gecko, the monitor lizard, the wall lizard, the skink and the chameleon. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_31"><sup>31</sup>Of all those that move along the ground, these are unclean for you. Whoever touches them when they are dead will be unclean till evening. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_32"><sup>32</sup>When one of them dies and falls on something, that article, whatever its use, will be unclean, whether it is made of wood, cloth, hide or sackcloth. Put it in water; it will be unclean till evening, and then it will be clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_33"><sup>33</sup>If one of them falls into a clay pot, everything in it will be unclean, and you must break the pot. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_34"><sup>34</sup>Any food you are allowed to eat that has come into contact with water from any such pot is unclean, and any liquid that is drunk from such a pot is unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_35"><sup>35</sup>Anything that one of their carcasses falls on becomes unclean; an oven or cooking pot must be broken up. They are unclean, and you are to regard them as unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_36"><sup>36</sup>A spring, however, or a cistern for collecting water remains clean, but anyone who touches one of these carcasses is unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_37"><sup>37</sup>If a carcass falls on any seeds that are to be planted, they remain clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_38"><sup>38</sup>But if water has been put on the seed and a carcass falls on it, it is unclean for you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_39"> <sup>39</sup>“ ‘If an animal that you are allowed to eat dies, anyone who touches its carcass will be unclean till evening. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_40"><sup>40</sup>Anyone who eats some of its carcass must wash their clothes, and they will be unclean till evening. Anyone who picks up the carcass must wash their clothes, and they will be unclean till evening. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_41"> <sup>41</sup>“ ‘Every creature that moves along the ground is to be regarded as unclean; it is not to be eaten. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_42"><sup>42</sup>You are not to eat any creature that moves along the ground, whether it moves on its belly or walks on all fours or on many feet; it is unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_43"><sup>43</sup>Do not defile yourselves by any of these creatures. Do not make yourselves unclean by means of them or be made unclean by them. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_44"><sup>44</sup>I am the Lord your God; consecrate yourselves and be holy, because I am holy. Do not make yourselves unclean by any creature that moves along the ground. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_45"><sup>45</sup>I am the Lord, who brought you up out of Egypt to be your God; therefore be holy, because I am holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_11_46"> <sup>46</sup>“ ‘These are the regulations concerning animals, birds, every living thing that moves about in the water and every creature that moves along the ground. </span>
<span class="verse le_11_47"><sup>47</sup>You must distinguish between the unclean and the clean, between living creatures that may be eaten and those that may not be eaten.’ ” <br/></span>
