---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Regulations About Defiling Skin Diseases </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_2"><sup>2</sup>“When anyone has a swelling or a rash or a shiny spot on their skin that may be a defiling skin disease,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word for defiling skin disease , traditionally translated “leprosy,” was used for various diseases affecting the skin; here and throughout verses 3-46.">⚓</a> they must be brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or descendants">⚓</a> who is a priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_3"><sup>3</sup>The priest is to examine the sore on the skin, and if the hair in the sore has turned white and the sore appears to be more than skin deep, it is a defiling skin disease. When the priest examines that person, he shall pronounce them ceremonially unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_4"><sup>4</sup>If the shiny spot on the skin is white but does not appear to be more than skin deep and the hair in it has not turned white, the priest is to isolate the affected person for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_5"><sup>5</sup>On the seventh day the priest is to examine them, and if he sees that the sore is unchanged and has not spread in the skin, he is to isolate them for another seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_6"><sup>6</sup>On the seventh day the priest is to examine them again, and if the sore has faded and has not spread in the skin, the priest shall pronounce them clean; it is only a rash. They must wash their clothes, and they will be clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_7"><sup>7</sup>But if the rash does spread in their skin after they have shown themselves to the priest to be pronounced clean, they must appear before the priest again. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_8"><sup>8</sup>The priest is to examine that person, and if the rash has spread in the skin, he shall pronounce them unclean; it is a defiling skin disease. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_9"> <sup>9</sup>“When anyone has a defiling skin disease, they must be brought to the priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_10"><sup>10</sup>The priest is to examine them, and if there is a white swelling in the skin that has turned the hair white and if there is raw flesh in the swelling, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_11"><sup>11</sup>it is a chronic skin disease and the priest shall pronounce them unclean. He is not to isolate them, because they are already unclean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_12"> <sup>12</sup>“If the disease breaks out all over their skin and, so far as the priest can see, it covers all the skin of the affected person from head to foot, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_13"><sup>13</sup>the priest is to examine them, and if the disease has covered their whole body, he shall pronounce them clean. Since it has all turned white, they are clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_14"><sup>14</sup>But whenever raw flesh appears on them, they will be unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_15"><sup>15</sup>When the priest sees the raw flesh, he shall pronounce them unclean. The raw flesh is unclean; they have a defiling disease. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_16"><sup>16</sup>If the raw flesh changes and turns white, they must go to the priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_17"><sup>17</sup>The priest is to examine them, and if the sores have turned white, the priest shall pronounce the affected person clean; then they will be clean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_18"> <sup>18</sup>“When someone has a boil on their skin and it heals, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_19"><sup>19</sup>and in the place where the boil was, a white swelling or reddish-white spot appears, they must present themselves to the priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_20"><sup>20</sup>The priest is to examine it, and if it appears to be more than skin deep and the hair in it has turned white, the priest shall pronounce that person unclean. It is a defiling skin disease that has broken out where the boil was. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_21"><sup>21</sup>But if, when the priest examines it, there is no white hair in it and it is not more than skin deep and has faded, then the priest is to isolate them for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_22"><sup>22</sup>If it is spreading in the skin, the priest shall pronounce them unclean; it is a defiling disease. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_23"><sup>23</sup>But if the spot is unchanged and has not spread, it is only a scar from the boil, and the priest shall pronounce them clean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_24"> <sup>24</sup>“When someone has a burn on their skin and a reddish-white or white spot appears in the raw flesh of the burn, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_25"><sup>25</sup>the priest is to examine the spot, and if the hair in it has turned white, and it appears to be more than skin deep, it is a defiling disease that has broken out in the burn. The priest shall pronounce them unclean; it is a defiling skin disease. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_26"><sup>26</sup>But if the priest examines it and there is no white hair in the spot and if it is not more than skin deep and has faded, then the priest is to isolate them for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_27"><sup>27</sup>On the seventh day the priest is to examine that person, and if it is spreading in the skin, the priest shall pronounce them unclean; it is a defiling skin disease. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_28"><sup>28</sup>If, however, the spot is unchanged and has not spread in the skin but has faded, it is a swelling from the burn, and the priest shall pronounce them clean; it is only a scar from the burn. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_29"> <sup>29</sup>“If a man or woman has a sore on their head or chin, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_30"><sup>30</sup>the priest is to examine the sore, and if it appears to be more than skin deep and the hair in it is yellow and thin, the priest shall pronounce them unclean; it is a defiling skin disease on the head or chin. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_31"><sup>31</sup>But if, when the priest examines the sore, it does not seem to be more than skin deep and there is no black hair in it, then the priest is to isolate the affected person for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_32"><sup>32</sup>On the seventh day the priest is to examine the sore, and if it has not spread and there is no yellow hair in it and it does not appear to be more than skin deep, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_33"><sup>33</sup>then the man or woman must shave themselves, except for the affected area, and the priest is to keep them isolated another seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_34"><sup>34</sup>On the seventh day the priest is to examine the sore, and if it has not spread in the skin and appears to be no more than skin deep, the priest shall pronounce them clean. They must wash their clothes, and they will be clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_35"><sup>35</sup>But if the sore does spread in the skin after they are pronounced clean, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_36"><sup>36</sup>the priest is to examine them, and if he finds that the sore has spread in the skin, he does not need to look for yellow hair; they are unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_37"><sup>37</sup>If, however, the sore is unchanged so far as the priest can see, and if black hair has grown in it, the affected person is healed. They are clean, and the priest shall pronounce them clean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_38"> <sup>38</sup>“When a man or woman has white spots on the skin, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_39"><sup>39</sup>the priest is to examine them, and if the spots are dull white, it is a harmless rash that has broken out on the skin; they are clean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_40"> <sup>40</sup>“A man who has lost his hair and is bald is clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_41"><sup>41</sup>If he has lost his hair from the front of his scalp and has a bald forehead, he is clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_42"><sup>42</sup>But if he has a reddish-white sore on his bald head or forehead, it is a defiling disease breaking out on his head or forehead. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_43"><sup>43</sup>The priest is to examine him, and if the swollen sore on his head or forehead is reddish-white like a defiling skin disease, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_44"><sup>44</sup>the man is diseased and is unclean. The priest shall pronounce him unclean because of the sore on his head. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_45"> <sup>45</sup>“Anyone with such a defiling disease must wear torn clothes, let their hair be unkempt,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or clothes, uncover their head">⚓</a> cover the lower part of their face and cry out, ‘Unclean! Unclean!’ </span>
<span class="verse le_13_46"><sup>46</sup>As long as they have the disease they remain unclean. They must live alone; they must live outside the camp. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Regulations About Defiling Molds </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_13_47"> <sup>47</sup>“As for any fabric that is spoiled with a defiling mold—any woolen or linen clothing, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_48"><sup>48</sup>any woven or knitted material of linen or wool, any leather or anything made of leather— </span>
<span class="verse le_13_49"><sup>49</sup>if the affected area in the fabric, the leather, the woven or knitted material, or any leather article, is greenish or reddish, it is a defiling mold and must be shown to the priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_50"><sup>50</sup>The priest is to examine the affected area and isolate the article for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_51"><sup>51</sup>On the seventh day he is to examine it, and if the mold has spread in the fabric, the woven or knitted material, or the leather, whatever its use, it is a persistent defiling mold; the article is unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_52"><sup>52</sup>He must burn the fabric, the woven or knitted material of wool or linen, or any leather article that has been spoiled; because the defiling mold is persistent, the article must be burned. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_53"> <sup>53</sup>“But if, when the priest examines it, the mold has not spread in the fabric, the woven or knitted material, or the leather article, </span>
<span class="verse le_13_54"><sup>54</sup>he shall order that the spoiled article be washed. Then he is to isolate it for another seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_55"><sup>55</sup>After the article has been washed, the priest is to examine it again, and if the mold has not changed its appearance, even though it has not spread, it is unclean. Burn it, no matter which side of the fabric has been spoiled. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_56"><sup>56</sup>If, when the priest examines it, the mold has faded after the article has been washed, he is to tear the spoiled part out of the fabric, the leather, or the woven or knitted material. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_57"><sup>57</sup>But if it reappears in the fabric, in the woven or knitted material, or in the leather article, it is a spreading mold; whatever has the mold must be burned. </span>
<span class="verse le_13_58"><sup>58</sup>Any fabric, woven or knitted material, or any leather article that has been washed and is rid of the mold, must be washed again. Then it will be clean.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_13_59"> <sup>59</sup>These are the regulations concerning defiling molds in woolen or linen clothing, woven or knitted material, or any leather article, for pronouncing them clean or unclean. <br/></span>
