---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>Cleansing From Defiling Skin Diseases </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_2"><sup>2</sup>“These are the regulations for any diseased person at the time of their ceremonial cleansing, when they are brought to the priest: </span>
<span class="verse le_14_3"><sup>3</sup>The priest is to go outside the camp and examine them. If they have been healed of their defiling skin disease,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word for defiling skin disease , traditionally translated “leprosy,” was used for various diseases affecting the skin; also in verses 7, 32, 54 and 57.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse le_14_4"><sup>4</sup>the priest shall order that two live clean birds and some cedar wood, scarlet yarn and hyssop be brought for the person to be cleansed. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_5"><sup>5</sup>Then the priest shall order that one of the birds be killed over fresh water in a clay pot. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_6"><sup>6</sup>He is then to take the live bird and dip it, together with the cedar wood, the scarlet yarn and the hyssop, into the blood of the bird that was killed over the fresh water. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_7"><sup>7</sup>Seven times he shall sprinkle the one to be cleansed of the defiling disease, and then pronounce them clean. After that, he is to release the live bird in the open fields. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_8"> <sup>8</sup>“The person to be cleansed must wash their clothes, shave off all their hair and bathe with water; then they will be ceremonially clean. After this they may come into the camp, but they must stay outside their tent for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_9"><sup>9</sup>On the seventh day they must shave off all their hair; they must shave their head, their beard, their eyebrows and the rest of their hair. They must wash their clothes and bathe themselves with water, and they will be clean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_10"> <sup>10</sup>“On the eighth day they must bring two male lambs and one ewe lamb a year old, each without defect, along with three-tenths of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 11 pounds or about 5 kilograms">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering, and one log<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1/3 quart or about 0.3 liter; also in verses 12, 15, 21 and 24">⚓</a> of oil. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_11"><sup>11</sup>The priest who pronounces them clean shall present both the one to be cleansed and their offerings before the Lord at the entrance to the tent of meeting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Then the priest is to take one of the male lambs and offer it as a guilt offering, along with the log of oil; he shall wave them before the Lord as a wave offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_13"><sup>13</sup>He is to slaughter the lamb in the sanctuary area where the sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also in verses 19, 22 and 31">⚓</a> and the burnt offering are slaughtered. Like the sin offering, the guilt offering belongs to the priest; it is most holy. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_14"><sup>14</sup>The priest is to take some of the blood of the guilt offering and put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed, on the thumb of their right hand and on the big toe of their right foot. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_15"><sup>15</sup>The priest shall then take some of the log of oil, pour it in the palm of his own left hand, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_16"><sup>16</sup>dip his right forefinger into the oil in his palm, and with his finger sprinkle some of it before the Lord seven times. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_17"><sup>17</sup>The priest is to put some of the oil remaining in his palm on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed, on the thumb of their right hand and on the big toe of their right foot, on top of the blood of the guilt offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_18"><sup>18</sup>The rest of the oil in his palm the priest shall put on the head of the one to be cleansed and make atonement for them before the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Then the priest is to sacrifice the sin offering and make atonement for the one to be cleansed from their uncleanness. After that, the priest shall slaughter the burnt offering </span>
<span class="verse le_14_20"><sup>20</sup>and offer it on the altar, together with the grain offering, and make atonement for them, and they will be clean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_21"> <sup>21</sup>“If, however, they are poor and cannot afford these, they must take one male lamb as a guilt offering to be waved to make atonement for them, together with a tenth of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3 1/2 pounds or about 1.6 kilograms">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering, a log of oil, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_22"><sup>22</sup>and two doves or two young pigeons, such as they can afford, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_23"> <sup>23</sup>“On the eighth day they must bring them for their cleansing to the priest at the entrance to the tent of meeting, before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_24"><sup>24</sup>The priest is to take the lamb for the guilt offering, together with the log of oil, and wave them before the Lord as a wave offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_25"><sup>25</sup>He shall slaughter the lamb for the guilt offering and take some of its blood and put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed, on the thumb of their right hand and on the big toe of their right foot. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_26"><sup>26</sup>The priest is to pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left hand, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_27"><sup>27</sup>and with his right forefinger sprinkle some of the oil from his palm seven times before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_28"><sup>28</sup>Some of the oil in his palm he is to put on the same places he put the blood of the guilt offering—on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed, on the thumb of their right hand and on the big toe of their right foot. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_29"><sup>29</sup>The rest of the oil in his palm the priest shall put on the head of the one to be cleansed, to make atonement for them before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_30"><sup>30</sup>Then he shall sacrifice the doves or the young pigeons, such as the person can afford, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_31"><sup>31</sup>one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering, together with the grain offering. In this way the priest will make atonement before the Lord on behalf of the one to be cleansed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_32"> <sup>32</sup>These are the regulations for anyone who has a defiling skin disease and who cannot afford the regular offerings for their cleansing. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Cleansing From Defiling Molds </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_14_33"> <sup>33</sup>The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_34"><sup>34</sup>“When you enter the land of Canaan, which I am giving you as your possession, and I put a spreading mold in a house in that land, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_35"><sup>35</sup>the owner of the house must go and tell the priest, ‘I have seen something that looks like a defiling mold in my house.’ </span>
<span class="verse le_14_36"><sup>36</sup>The priest is to order the house to be emptied before he goes in to examine the mold, so that nothing in the house will be pronounced unclean. After this the priest is to go in and inspect the house. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_37"><sup>37</sup>He is to examine the mold on the walls, and if it has greenish or reddish depressions that appear to be deeper than the surface of the wall, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_38"><sup>38</sup>the priest shall go out the doorway of the house and close it up for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_39"><sup>39</sup>On the seventh day the priest shall return to inspect the house. If the mold has spread on the walls, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_40"><sup>40</sup>he is to order that the contaminated stones be torn out and thrown into an unclean place outside the town. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_41"><sup>41</sup>He must have all the inside walls of the house scraped and the material that is scraped off dumped into an unclean place outside the town. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_42"><sup>42</sup>Then they are to take other stones to replace these and take new clay and plaster the house. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_43"> <sup>43</sup>“If the defiling mold reappears in the house after the stones have been torn out and the house scraped and plastered, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_44"><sup>44</sup>the priest is to go and examine it and, if the mold has spread in the house, it is a persistent defiling mold; the house is unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_45"><sup>45</sup>It must be torn down—its stones, timbers and all the plaster—and taken out of the town to an unclean place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_46"> <sup>46</sup>“Anyone who goes into the house while it is closed up will be unclean till evening. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_47"><sup>47</sup>Anyone who sleeps or eats in the house must wash their clothes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_48"> <sup>48</sup>“But if the priest comes to examine it and the mold has not spread after the house has been plastered, he shall pronounce the house clean, because the defiling mold is gone. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_49"><sup>49</sup>To purify the house he is to take two birds and some cedar wood, scarlet yarn and hyssop. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_50"><sup>50</sup>He shall kill one of the birds over fresh water in a clay pot. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_51"><sup>51</sup>Then he is to take the cedar wood, the hyssop, the scarlet yarn and the live bird, dip them into the blood of the dead bird and the fresh water, and sprinkle the house seven times. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_52"><sup>52</sup>He shall purify the house with the bird’s blood, the fresh water, the live bird, the cedar wood, the hyssop and the scarlet yarn. </span>
<span class="verse le_14_53"><sup>53</sup>Then he is to release the live bird in the open fields outside the town. In this way he will make atonement for the house, and it will be clean.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_14_54"> <sup>54</sup>These are the regulations for any defiling skin disease, for a sore, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_55"><sup>55</sup>for defiling molds in fabric or in a house, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_56"><sup>56</sup>and for a swelling, a rash or a shiny spot, </span>
<span class="verse le_14_57"><sup>57</sup>to determine when something is clean or unclean. <br/> These are the regulations for defiling skin diseases and defiling molds. <br/></span>
