---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>The Day of Atonement </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron who died when they approached the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_2"><sup>2</sup>The Lord said to Moses: “Tell your brother Aaron that he is not to come whenever he chooses into the Most Holy Place behind the curtain in front of the atonement cover on the ark, or else he will die. For I will appear in the cloud over the atonement cover. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_3"> <sup>3</sup>“This is how Aaron is to enter the Most Holy Place: He must first bring a young bull for a sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; here and throughout this chapter">⚓</a> and a ram for a burnt offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_4"><sup>4</sup>He is to put on the sacred linen tunic, with linen undergarments next to his body; he is to tie the linen sash around him and put on the linen turban. These are sacred garments; so he must bathe himself with water before he puts them on. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_5"><sup>5</sup>From the Israelite community he is to take two male goats for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Aaron is to offer the bull for his own sin offering to make atonement for himself and his household. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_7"><sup>7</sup>Then he is to take the two goats and present them before the Lord at the entrance to the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_8"><sup>8</sup>He is to cast lots for the two goats—one lot for the Lord and the other for the scapegoat.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain; also in verses 10 and 26.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse le_16_9"><sup>9</sup>Aaron shall bring the goat whose lot falls to the Lord and sacrifice it for a sin offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_10"><sup>10</sup>But the goat chosen by lot as the scapegoat shall be presented alive before the Lord to be used for making atonement by sending it into the wilderness as a scapegoat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Aaron shall bring the bull for his own sin offering to make atonement for himself and his household, and he is to slaughter the bull for his own sin offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_12"><sup>12</sup>He is to take a censer full of burning coals from the altar before the Lord and two handfuls of finely ground fragrant incense and take them behind the curtain. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_13"><sup>13</sup>He is to put the incense on the fire before the Lord, and the smoke of the incense will conceal the atonement cover above the tablets of the covenant law, so that he will not die. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_14"><sup>14</sup>He is to take some of the bull’s blood and with his finger sprinkle it on the front of the atonement cover; then he shall sprinkle some of it with his finger seven times before the atonement cover. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_15"> <sup>15</sup>“He shall then slaughter the goat for the sin offering for the people and take its blood behind the curtain and do with it as he did with the bull’s blood: He shall sprinkle it on the atonement cover and in front of it. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_16"><sup>16</sup>In this way he will make atonement for the Most Holy Place because of the uncleanness and rebellion of the Israelites, whatever their sins have been. He is to do the same for the tent of meeting, which is among them in the midst of their uncleanness. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_17"><sup>17</sup>No one is to be in the tent of meeting from the time Aaron goes in to make atonement in the Most Holy Place until he comes out, having made atonement for himself, his household and the whole community of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Then he shall come out to the altar that is before the Lord and make atonement for it. He shall take some of the bull’s blood and some of the goat’s blood and put it on all the horns of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_19"><sup>19</sup>He shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times to cleanse it and to consecrate it from the uncleanness of the Israelites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_20"> <sup>20</sup>“When Aaron has finished making atonement for the Most Holy Place, the tent of meeting and the altar, he shall bring forward the live goat. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_21"><sup>21</sup>He is to lay both hands on the head of the live goat and confess over it all the wickedness and rebellion of the Israelites—all their sins—and put them on the goat’s head. He shall send the goat away into the wilderness in the care of someone appointed for the task. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_22"><sup>22</sup>The goat will carry on itself all their sins to a remote place; and the man shall release it in the wilderness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_23"> <sup>23</sup>“Then Aaron is to go into the tent of meeting and take off the linen garments he put on before he entered the Most Holy Place, and he is to leave them there. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_24"><sup>24</sup>He shall bathe himself with water in the sanctuary area and put on his regular garments. Then he shall come out and sacrifice the burnt offering for himself and the burnt offering for the people, to make atonement for himself and for the people. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_25"><sup>25</sup>He shall also burn the fat of the sin offering on the altar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_26"> <sup>26</sup>“The man who releases the goat as a scapegoat must wash his clothes and bathe himself with water; afterward he may come into the camp. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_27"><sup>27</sup>The bull and the goat for the sin offerings, whose blood was brought into the Most Holy Place to make atonement, must be taken outside the camp; their hides, flesh and intestines are to be burned up. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_28"><sup>28</sup>The man who burns them must wash his clothes and bathe himself with water; afterward he may come into the camp. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_29"> <sup>29</sup>“This is to be a lasting ordinance for you: On the tenth day of the seventh month you must deny yourselves<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or must fast ; also in verse 31">⚓</a> and not do any work—whether native-born or a foreigner residing among you— </span>
<span class="verse le_16_30"><sup>30</sup>because on this day atonement will be made for you, to cleanse you. Then, before the Lord, you will be clean from all your sins. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_31"><sup>31</sup>It is a day of sabbath rest, and you must deny yourselves; it is a lasting ordinance. </span>
<span class="verse le_16_32"><sup>32</sup>The priest who is anointed and ordained to succeed his father as high priest is to make atonement. He is to put on the sacred linen garments </span>
<span class="verse le_16_33"><sup>33</sup>and make atonement for the Most Holy Place, for the tent of meeting and the altar, and for the priests and all the members of the community. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_16_34"> <sup>34</sup>“This is to be a lasting ordinance for you: Atonement is to be made once a year for all the sins of the Israelites.” <br/> And it was done, as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
