---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>Eating Blood Forbidden </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_17_2"><sup>2</sup>“Speak to Aaron and his sons and to all the Israelites and say to them: ‘This is what the Lord has commanded: </span>
<span class="verse le_17_3"><sup>3</sup>Any Israelite who sacrifices an ox,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word can refer to either male or female.">⚓</a> a lamb or a goat in the camp or outside of it </span>
<span class="verse le_17_4"><sup>4</sup>instead of bringing it to the entrance to the tent of meeting to present it as an offering to the Lord in front of the tabernacle of the Lord—that person shall be considered guilty of bloodshed; they have shed blood and must be cut off from their people. </span>
<span class="verse le_17_5"><sup>5</sup>This is so the Israelites will bring to the Lord the sacrifices they are now making in the open fields. They must bring them to the priest, that is, to the Lord, at the entrance to the tent of meeting and sacrifice them as fellowship offerings. </span>
<span class="verse le_17_6"><sup>6</sup>The priest is to splash the blood against the altar of the Lord at the entrance to the tent of meeting and burn the fat as an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_17_7"><sup>7</sup>They must no longer offer any of their sacrifices to the goat idols<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the demons">⚓</a> to whom they prostitute themselves. This is to be a lasting ordinance for them and for the generations to come.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_17_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Say to them: ‘Any Israelite or any foreigner residing among them who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice </span>
<span class="verse le_17_9"><sup>9</sup>and does not bring it to the entrance to the tent of meeting to sacrifice it to the Lord must be cut off from the people of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_17_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘I will set my face against any Israelite or any foreigner residing among them who eats blood, and I will cut them off from the people. </span>
<span class="verse le_17_11"><sup>11</sup>For the life of a creature is in the blood, and I have given it to you to make atonement for yourselves on the altar; it is the blood that makes atonement for one’s life.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or atonement by the life in the blood">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse le_17_12"><sup>12</sup>Therefore I say to the Israelites, “None of you may eat blood, nor may any foreigner residing among you eat blood.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_17_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Any Israelite or any foreigner residing among you who hunts any animal or bird that may be eaten must drain out the blood and cover it with earth, </span>
<span class="verse le_17_14"><sup>14</sup>because the life of every creature is its blood. That is why I have said to the Israelites, “You must not eat the blood of any creature, because the life of every creature is its blood; anyone who eats it must be cut off.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_17_15"> <sup>15</sup>“ ‘Anyone, whether native-born or foreigner, who eats anything found dead or torn by wild animals must wash their clothes and bathe with water, and they will be ceremonially unclean till evening; then they will be clean. </span>
<span class="verse le_17_16"><sup>16</sup>But if they do not wash their clothes and bathe themselves, they will be held responsible.’ ” <br/></span>
