---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>Unlawful Sexual Relations </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_18_2"><sup>2</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘I am the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse le_18_3"><sup>3</sup>You must not do as they do in Egypt, where you used to live, and you must not do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you. Do not follow their practices. </span>
<span class="verse le_18_4"><sup>4</sup>You must obey my laws and be careful to follow my decrees. I am the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse le_18_5"><sup>5</sup>Keep my decrees and laws, for the person who obeys them will live by them. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘No one is to approach any close relative to have sexual relations. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘Do not dishonor your father by having sexual relations with your mother. She is your mother; do not have relations with her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with your father’s wife; that would dishonor your father. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with your sister, either your father’s daughter or your mother’s daughter, whether she was born in the same home or elsewhere. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with your son’s daughter or your daughter’s daughter; that would dishonor you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_11"> <sup>11</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with the daughter of your father’s wife, born to your father; she is your sister. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_12"> <sup>12</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with your father’s sister; she is your father’s close relative. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with your mother’s sister, because she is your mother’s close relative. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘Do not dishonor your father’s brother by approaching his wife to have sexual relations; she is your aunt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_15"> <sup>15</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with your daughter-in-law. She is your son’s wife; do not have relations with her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_16"> <sup>16</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with your brother’s wife; that would dishonor your brother. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with both a woman and her daughter. Do not have sexual relations with either her son’s daughter or her daughter’s daughter; they are her close relatives. That is wickedness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_18"> <sup>18</sup>“ ‘Do not take your wife’s sister as a rival wife and have sexual relations with her while your wife is living. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_19"> <sup>19</sup>“ ‘Do not approach a woman to have sexual relations during the uncleanness of her monthly period. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_20"> <sup>20</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with your neighbor’s wife and defile yourself with her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_21"> <sup>21</sup>“ ‘Do not give any of your children to be sacrificed to Molek, for you must not profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_22"> <sup>22</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with a man as one does with a woman; that is detestable. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_23"> <sup>23</sup>“ ‘Do not have sexual relations with an animal and defile yourself with it. A woman must not present herself to an animal to have sexual relations with it; that is a perversion. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_24"> <sup>24</sup>“ ‘Do not defile yourselves in any of these ways, because this is how the nations that I am going to drive out before you became defiled. </span>
<span class="verse le_18_25"><sup>25</sup>Even the land was defiled; so I punished it for its sin, and the land vomited out its inhabitants. </span>
<span class="verse le_18_26"><sup>26</sup>But you must keep my decrees and my laws. The native-born and the foreigners residing among you must not do any of these detestable things, </span>
<span class="verse le_18_27"><sup>27</sup>for all these things were done by the people who lived in the land before you, and the land became defiled. </span>
<span class="verse le_18_28"><sup>28</sup>And if you defile the land, it will vomit you out as it vomited out the nations that were before you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_18_29"> <sup>29</sup>“ ‘Everyone who does any of these detestable things—such persons must be cut off from their people. </span>
<span class="verse le_18_30"><sup>30</sup>Keep my requirements and do not follow any of the detestable customs that were practiced before you came and do not defile yourselves with them. I am the Lord your God.’ ” <br/></span>
