---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>Various Laws </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_19_2"><sup>2</sup>“Speak to the entire assembly of Israel and say to them: ‘Be holy because I, the Lord your God, am holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_3"> <sup>3</sup>“ ‘Each of you must respect your mother and father, and you must observe my Sabbaths. I am the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_4"> <sup>4</sup>“ ‘Do not turn to idols or make metal gods for yourselves. I am the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_5"> <sup>5</sup>“ ‘When you sacrifice a fellowship offering to the Lord, sacrifice it in such a way that it will be accepted on your behalf. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_6"><sup>6</sup>It shall be eaten on the day you sacrifice it or on the next day; anything left over until the third day must be burned up. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_7"><sup>7</sup>If any of it is eaten on the third day, it is impure and will not be accepted. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_8"><sup>8</sup>Whoever eats it will be held responsible because they have desecrated what is holy to the Lord; they must be cut off from their people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘When you reap the harvest of your land, do not reap to the very edges of your field or gather the gleanings of your harvest. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_10"><sup>10</sup>Do not go over your vineyard a second time or pick up the grapes that have fallen. Leave them for the poor and the foreigner. I am the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_11"> <sup>11</sup>“ ‘Do not steal. <br/> “ ‘Do not lie. <br/> “ ‘Do not deceive one another. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_12"> <sup>12</sup>“ ‘Do not swear falsely by my name and so profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Do not defraud or rob your neighbor. <br/> “ ‘Do not hold back the wages of a hired worker overnight. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘Do not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block in front of the blind, but fear your God. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_15"> <sup>15</sup>“ ‘Do not pervert justice; do not show partiality to the poor or favoritism to the great, but judge your neighbor fairly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_16"> <sup>16</sup>“ ‘Do not go about spreading slander among your people. <br/> “ ‘Do not do anything that endangers your neighbor’s life. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘Do not hate a fellow Israelite in your heart. Rebuke your neighbor frankly so you will not share in their guilt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_18"> <sup>18</sup>“ ‘Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_19"> <sup>19</sup>“ ‘Keep my decrees. <br/> “ ‘Do not mate different kinds of animals. <br/> “ ‘Do not plant your field with two kinds of seed. <br/> “ ‘Do not wear clothing woven of two kinds of material. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_20"> <sup>20</sup>“ ‘If a man sleeps with a female slave who is promised to another man but who has not been ransomed or given her freedom, there must be due punishment.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or be an inquiry">⚓</a> Yet they are not to be put to death, because she had not been freed. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_21"><sup>21</sup>The man, however, must bring a ram to the entrance to the tent of meeting for a guilt offering to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_22"><sup>22</sup>With the ram of the guilt offering the priest is to make atonement for him before the Lord for the sin he has committed, and his sin will be forgiven. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_23"> <sup>23</sup>“ ‘When you enter the land and plant any kind of fruit tree, regard its fruit as forbidden.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew uncircumcised">⚓</a> For three years you are to consider it forbidden<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew uncircumcised">⚓</a> ; it must not be eaten. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_24"><sup>24</sup>In the fourth year all its fruit will be holy, an offering of praise to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_25"><sup>25</sup>But in the fifth year you may eat its fruit. In this way your harvest will be increased. I am the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_26"> <sup>26</sup>“ ‘Do not eat any meat with the blood still in it. <br/> “ ‘Do not practice divination or seek omens. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_27"> <sup>27</sup>“ ‘Do not cut the hair at the sides of your head or clip off the edges of your beard. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_28"> <sup>28</sup>“ ‘Do not cut your bodies for the dead or put tattoo marks on yourselves. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_29"> <sup>29</sup>“ ‘Do not degrade your daughter by making her a prostitute, or the land will turn to prostitution and be filled with wickedness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_30"> <sup>30</sup>“ ‘Observe my Sabbaths and have reverence for my sanctuary. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_31"> <sup>31</sup>“ ‘Do not turn to mediums or seek out spiritists, for you will be defiled by them. I am the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_32"> <sup>32</sup>“ ‘Stand up in the presence of the aged, show respect for the elderly and revere your God. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_33"> <sup>33</sup>“ ‘When a foreigner resides among you in your land, do not mistreat them. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_34"><sup>34</sup>The foreigner residing among you must be treated as your native-born. Love them as yourself, for you were foreigners in Egypt. I am the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_35"> <sup>35</sup>“ ‘Do not use dishonest standards when measuring length, weight or quantity. </span>
<span class="verse le_19_36"><sup>36</sup>Use honest scales and honest weights, an honest ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="An ephah was a dry measure having the capacity of about 3/5 of a bushel or about 22 liters.">⚓</a> and an honest hin.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A hin was a liquid measure having the capacity of about 1 gallon or about 3.8 liters.">⚓</a> I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_19_37"> <sup>37</sup>“ ‘Keep all my decrees and all my laws and follow them. I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
