---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>Rules for Priests </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, “Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them: ‘A priest must not make himself ceremonially unclean for any of his people who die, </span>
<span class="verse le_21_2"><sup>2</sup>except for a close relative, such as his mother or father, his son or daughter, his brother, </span>
<span class="verse le_21_3"><sup>3</sup>or an unmarried sister who is dependent on him since she has no husband—for her he may make himself unclean. </span>
<span class="verse le_21_4"><sup>4</sup>He must not make himself unclean for people related to him by marriage,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or unclean as a leader among his people">⚓</a> and so defile himself. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_21_5"> <sup>5</sup>“ ‘Priests must not shave their heads or shave off the edges of their beards or cut their bodies. </span>
<span class="verse le_21_6"><sup>6</sup>They must be holy to their God and must not profane the name of their God. Because they present the food offerings to the Lord, the food of their God, they are to be holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_21_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘They must not marry women defiled by prostitution or divorced from their husbands, because priests are holy to their God. </span>
<span class="verse le_21_8"><sup>8</sup>Regard them as holy, because they offer up the food of your God. Consider them holy, because I the Lord am holy—I who make you holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_21_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘If a priest’s daughter defiles herself by becoming a prostitute, she disgraces her father; she must be burned in the fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_21_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘The high priest, the one among his brothers who has had the anointing oil poured on his head and who has been ordained to wear the priestly garments, must not let his hair become unkempt<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or not uncover his head">⚓</a> or tear his clothes. </span>
<span class="verse le_21_11"><sup>11</sup>He must not enter a place where there is a dead body. He must not make himself unclean, even for his father or mother, </span>
<span class="verse le_21_12"><sup>12</sup>nor leave the sanctuary of his God or desecrate it, because he has been dedicated by the anointing oil of his God. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_21_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘The woman he marries must be a virgin. </span>
<span class="verse le_21_14"><sup>14</sup>He must not marry a widow, a divorced woman, or a woman defiled by prostitution, but only a virgin from his own people, </span>
<span class="verse le_21_15"><sup>15</sup>so that he will not defile his offspring among his people. I am the Lord, who makes him holy.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_21_16"> <sup>16</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_21_17"><sup>17</sup>“Say to Aaron: ‘For the generations to come none of your descendants who has a defect may come near to offer the food of his God. </span>
<span class="verse le_21_18"><sup>18</sup>No man who has any defect may come near: no man who is blind or lame, disfigured or deformed; </span>
<span class="verse le_21_19"><sup>19</sup>no man with a crippled foot or hand, </span>
<span class="verse le_21_20"><sup>20</sup>or who is a hunchback or a dwarf, or who has any eye defect, or who has festering or running sores or damaged testicles. </span>
<span class="verse le_21_21"><sup>21</sup>No descendant of Aaron the priest who has any defect is to come near to present the food offerings to the Lord. He has a defect; he must not come near to offer the food of his God. </span>
<span class="verse le_21_22"><sup>22</sup>He may eat the most holy food of his God, as well as the holy food; </span>
<span class="verse le_21_23"><sup>23</sup>yet because of his defect, he must not go near the curtain or approach the altar, and so desecrate my sanctuary. I am the Lord, who makes them holy.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_21_24"> <sup>24</sup>So Moses told this to Aaron and his sons and to all the Israelites. <br/></span>
