---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1></div>
<span class="verse le_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_22_2"><sup>2</sup>“Tell Aaron and his sons to treat with respect the sacred offerings the Israelites consecrate to me, so they will not profane my holy name. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_22_3"> <sup>3</sup>“Say to them: ‘For the generations to come, if any of your descendants is ceremonially unclean and yet comes near the sacred offerings that the Israelites consecrate to the Lord, that person must be cut off from my presence. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_22_4"> <sup>4</sup>“ ‘If a descendant of Aaron has a defiling skin disease<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word for defiling skin disease , traditionally translated “leprosy,” was used for various diseases affecting the skin.">⚓</a> or a bodily discharge, he may not eat the sacred offerings until he is cleansed. He will also be unclean if he touches something defiled by a corpse or by anyone who has an emission of semen, </span>
<span class="verse le_22_5"><sup>5</sup>or if he touches any crawling thing that makes him unclean, or any person who makes him unclean, whatever the uncleanness may be. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_6"><sup>6</sup>The one who touches any such thing will be unclean till evening. He must not eat any of the sacred offerings unless he has bathed himself with water. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_7"><sup>7</sup>When the sun goes down, he will be clean, and after that he may eat the sacred offerings, for they are his food. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_8"><sup>8</sup>He must not eat anything found dead or torn by wild animals, and so become unclean through it. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_22_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘The priests are to perform my service in such a way that they do not become guilty and die for treating it with contempt. I am the Lord, who makes them holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_22_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘No one outside a priest’s family may eat the sacred offering, nor may the guest of a priest or his hired worker eat it. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_11"><sup>11</sup>But if a priest buys a slave with money, or if slaves are born in his household, they may eat his food. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_12"><sup>12</sup>If a priest’s daughter marries anyone other than a priest, she may not eat any of the sacred contributions. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_13"><sup>13</sup>But if a priest’s daughter becomes a widow or is divorced, yet has no children, and she returns to live in her father’s household as in her youth, she may eat her father’s food. No unauthorized person, however, may eat it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_22_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘Anyone who eats a sacred offering by mistake must make restitution to the priest for the offering and add a fifth of the value to it. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_15"><sup>15</sup>The priests must not desecrate the sacred offerings the Israelites present to the Lord</span>
<span class="verse le_22_16"><sup>16</sup>by allowing them to eat the sacred offerings and so bring upon them guilt requiring payment. I am the Lord, who makes them holy.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Unacceptable Sacrifices </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_22_17"> <sup>17</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_22_18"><sup>18</sup>“Speak to Aaron and his sons and to all the Israelites and say to them: ‘If any of you—whether an Israelite or a foreigner residing in Israel—presents a gift for a burnt offering to the Lord, either to fulfill a vow or as a freewill offering, </span>
<span class="verse le_22_19"><sup>19</sup>you must present a male without defect from the cattle, sheep or goats in order that it may be accepted on your behalf. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_20"><sup>20</sup>Do not bring anything with a defect, because it will not be accepted on your behalf. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_21"><sup>21</sup>When anyone brings from the herd or flock a fellowship offering to the Lord to fulfill a special vow or as a freewill offering, it must be without defect or blemish to be acceptable. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_22"><sup>22</sup>Do not offer to the Lord the blind, the injured or the maimed, or anything with warts or festering or running sores. Do not place any of these on the altar as a food offering presented to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_23"><sup>23</sup>You may, however, present as a freewill offering an ox<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word can refer to either male or female.">⚓</a> or a sheep that is deformed or stunted, but it will not be accepted in fulfillment of a vow. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_24"><sup>24</sup>You must not offer to the Lord an animal whose testicles are bruised, crushed, torn or cut. You must not do this in your own land, </span>
<span class="verse le_22_25"><sup>25</sup>and you must not accept such animals from the hand of a foreigner and offer them as the food of your God. They will not be accepted on your behalf, because they are deformed and have defects.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_22_26"> <sup>26</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_22_27"><sup>27</sup>“When a calf, a lamb or a goat is born, it is to remain with its mother for seven days. From the eighth day on, it will be acceptable as a food offering presented to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_28"><sup>28</sup>Do not slaughter a cow or a sheep and its young on the same day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_22_29"> <sup>29</sup>“When you sacrifice a thank offering to the Lord, sacrifice it in such a way that it will be accepted on your behalf. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_30"><sup>30</sup>It must be eaten that same day; leave none of it till morning. I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_22_31"> <sup>31</sup>“Keep my commands and follow them. I am the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_22_32"><sup>32</sup>Do not profane my holy name, for I must be acknowledged as holy by the Israelites. I am the Lord, who made you holy </span>
<span class="verse le_22_33"><sup>33</sup>and who brought you out of Egypt to be your God. I am the Lord.” <br/></span>
