---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>The Appointed Festivals </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_23_2"><sup>2</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘These are my appointed festivals, the appointed festivals of the Lord, which you are to proclaim as sacred assemblies. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>The Sabbath </p></div>
<span class="verse le_23_3"> <sup>3</sup>“ ‘There are six days when you may work, but the seventh day is a day of sabbath rest, a day of sacred assembly. You are not to do any work; wherever you live, it is a sabbath to the Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>The Passover and the Festival of Unleavened Bread </p></div>
<span class="verse le_23_4"> <sup>4</sup>“ ‘These are the Lord’s appointed festivals, the sacred assemblies you are to proclaim at their appointed times: </span>
<span class="verse le_23_5"><sup>5</sup>The Lord’s Passover begins at twilight on the fourteenth day of the first month. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_6"><sup>6</sup>On the fifteenth day of that month the Lord’s Festival of Unleavened Bread begins; for seven days you must eat bread made without yeast. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_7"><sup>7</sup>On the first day hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_8"><sup>8</sup>For seven days present a food offering to the Lord. And on the seventh day hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>Offering the Firstfruits </p></div>
<span class="verse le_23_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_23_10"><sup>10</sup>“Speak to the Israelites and say to them: ‘When you enter the land I am going to give you and you reap its harvest, bring to the priest a sheaf of the first grain you harvest. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_11"><sup>11</sup>He is to wave the sheaf before the Lord so it will be accepted on your behalf; the priest is to wave it on the day after the Sabbath. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_12"><sup>12</sup>On the day you wave the sheaf, you must sacrifice as a burnt offering to the Lord a lamb a year old without defect, </span>
<span class="verse le_23_13"><sup>13</sup>together with its grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 7 pounds or about 3.2 kilograms; also in verse 17">⚓</a> of the finest flour mixed with olive oil—a food offering presented to the Lord, a pleasing aroma—and its drink offering of a quarter of a hin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 quart or about 1 liter">⚓</a> of wine. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_14"><sup>14</sup>You must not eat any bread, or roasted or new grain, until the very day you bring this offering to your God. This is to be a lasting ordinance for the generations to come, wherever you live. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>The Festival of Weeks </p></div>
<span class="verse le_23_15"> <sup>15</sup>“ ‘From the day after the Sabbath, the day you brought the sheaf of the wave offering, count off seven full weeks. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_16"><sup>16</sup>Count off fifty days up to the day after the seventh Sabbath, and then present an offering of new grain to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_17"><sup>17</sup>From wherever you live, bring two loaves made of two-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour, baked with yeast, as a wave offering of firstfruits to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_18"><sup>18</sup>Present with this bread seven male lambs, each a year old and without defect, one young bull and two rams. They will be a burnt offering to the Lord, together with their grain offerings and drink offerings—a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_19"><sup>19</sup>Then sacrifice one male goat for a sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering">⚓</a> and two lambs, each a year old, for a fellowship offering. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_20"><sup>20</sup>The priest is to wave the two lambs before the Lord as a wave offering, together with the bread of the firstfruits. They are a sacred offering to the Lord for the priest. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_21"><sup>21</sup>On that same day you are to proclaim a sacred assembly and do no regular work. This is to be a lasting ordinance for the generations to come, wherever you live. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_23_22"> <sup>22</sup>“ ‘When you reap the harvest of your land, do not reap to the very edges of your field or gather the gleanings of your harvest. Leave them for the poor and for the foreigner residing among you. I am the Lord your God.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>The Festival of Trumpets </p></div>
<span class="verse le_23_23"> <sup>23</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_23_24"><sup>24</sup>“Say to the Israelites: ‘On the first day of the seventh month you are to have a day of sabbath rest, a sacred assembly commemorated with trumpet blasts. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_25"><sup>25</sup>Do no regular work, but present a food offering to the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>The Day of Atonement </p></div>
<span class="verse le_23_26"> <sup>26</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_23_27"><sup>27</sup>“The tenth day of this seventh month is the Day of Atonement. Hold a sacred assembly and deny yourselves,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and fast ; similarly in verses 29 and 32">⚓</a> and present a food offering to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_28"><sup>28</sup>Do not do any work on that day, because it is the Day of Atonement, when atonement is made for you before the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_29"><sup>29</sup>Those who do not deny themselves on that day must be cut off from their people. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_30"><sup>30</sup>I will destroy from among their people anyone who does any work on that day. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_31"><sup>31</sup>You shall do no work at all. This is to be a lasting ordinance for the generations to come, wherever you live. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_32"><sup>32</sup>It is a day of sabbath rest for you, and you must deny yourselves. From the evening of the ninth day of the month until the following evening you are to observe your sabbath.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>The Festival of Tabernacles </p></div>
<span class="verse le_23_33"> <sup>33</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_23_34"><sup>34</sup>“Say to the Israelites: ‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month the Lord’s Festival of Tabernacles begins, and it lasts for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_35"><sup>35</sup>The first day is a sacred assembly; do no regular work. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_36"><sup>36</sup>For seven days present food offerings to the Lord, and on the eighth day hold a sacred assembly and present a food offering to the Lord. It is the closing special assembly; do no regular work. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_23_37"> <sup>37</sup>(“ ‘These are the Lord’s appointed festivals, which you are to proclaim as sacred assemblies for bringing food offerings to the Lord—the burnt offerings and grain offerings, sacrifices and drink offerings required for each day. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_38"><sup>38</sup>These offerings are in addition to those for the Lord’s Sabbaths and<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or These festivals are in addition to the Lord’s Sabbaths, and these offerings are">⚓</a> in addition to your gifts and whatever you have vowed and all the freewill offerings you give to the Lord.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_23_39"> <sup>39</sup>“ ‘So beginning with the fifteenth day of the seventh month, after you have gathered the crops of the land, celebrate the festival to the Lord for seven days; the first day is a day of sabbath rest, and the eighth day also is a day of sabbath rest. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_40"><sup>40</sup>On the first day you are to take branches from luxuriant trees—from palms, willows and other leafy trees—and rejoice before the Lord your God for seven days. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_41"><sup>41</sup>Celebrate this as a festival to the Lord for seven days each year. This is to be a lasting ordinance for the generations to come; celebrate it in the seventh month. </span>
<span class="verse le_23_42"><sup>42</sup>Live in temporary shelters for seven days: All native-born Israelites are to live in such shelters </span>
<span class="verse le_23_43"><sup>43</sup>so your descendants will know that I had the Israelites live in temporary shelters when I brought them out of Egypt. I am the Lord your God.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_23_44"> <sup>44</sup>So Moses announced to the Israelites the appointed festivals of the Lord. <br/></span>
