---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Leviticus 
bookNumber: 3
audio: \Audio\NIV\le\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>Olive Oil and Bread Set Before the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Moses, </span>
<span class="verse le_24_2"><sup>2</sup>“Command the Israelites to bring you clear oil of pressed olives for the light so that the lamps may be kept burning continually. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_3"><sup>3</sup>Outside the curtain that shields the ark of the covenant law in the tent of meeting, Aaron is to tend the lamps before the Lord from evening till morning, continually. This is to be a lasting ordinance for the generations to come. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_4"><sup>4</sup>The lamps on the pure gold lampstand before the Lord must be tended continually. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_24_5"> <sup>5</sup>“Take the finest flour and bake twelve loaves of bread, using two-tenths of an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 7 pounds or about 3.2 kilograms">⚓</a> for each loaf. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_6"><sup>6</sup>Arrange them in two stacks, six in each stack, on the table of pure gold before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_7"><sup>7</sup>By each stack put some pure incense as a memorial<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or representative">⚓</a> portion to represent the bread and to be a food offering presented to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_8"><sup>8</sup>This bread is to be set out before the Lord regularly, Sabbath after Sabbath, on behalf of the Israelites, as a lasting covenant. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_9"><sup>9</sup>It belongs to Aaron and his sons, who are to eat it in the sanctuary area, because it is a most holy part of their perpetual share of the food offerings presented to the Lord.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Blasphemer Put to Death </h3></div>
<span class="verse le_24_10"> <sup>10</sup>Now the son of an Israelite mother and an Egyptian father went out among the Israelites, and a fight broke out in the camp between him and an Israelite. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_11"><sup>11</sup>The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name with a curse; so they brought him to Moses. (His mother’s name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri the Danite.) </span>
<span class="verse le_24_12"><sup>12</sup>They put him in custody until the will of the Lord should be made clear to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_24_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then the Lord said to Moses: </span>
<span class="verse le_24_14"><sup>14</sup>“Take the blasphemer outside the camp. All those who heard him are to lay their hands on his head, and the entire assembly is to stone him. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_15"><sup>15</sup>Say to the Israelites: ‘Anyone who curses their God will be held responsible; </span>
<span class="verse le_24_16"><sup>16</sup>anyone who blasphemes the name of the Lord is to be put to death. The entire assembly must stone them. Whether foreigner or native-born, when they blaspheme the Name they are to be put to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_24_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘Anyone who takes the life of a human being is to be put to death. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_18"><sup>18</sup>Anyone who takes the life of someone’s animal must make restitution—life for life. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_19"><sup>19</sup>Anyone who injures their neighbor is to be injured in the same manner: </span>
<span class="verse le_24_20"><sup>20</sup>fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. The one who has inflicted the injury must suffer the same injury. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_21"><sup>21</sup>Whoever kills an animal must make restitution, but whoever kills a human being is to be put to death. </span>
<span class="verse le_24_22"><sup>22</sup>You are to have the same law for the foreigner and the native-born. I am the Lord your God.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse le_24_23"> <sup>23</sup>Then Moses spoke to the Israelites, and they took the blasphemer outside the camp and stoned him. The Israelites did as the Lord commanded Moses. <br/></span>
