---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse es_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The vision concerning Judah and Jerusalem that Isaiah son of Amoz saw during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Rebellious Nation </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_1_2">  <sup>2</sup>Hear me, you heavens! Listen, earth! <br/>   For the Lord has spoken: <br/>  “I reared children and brought them up, <br/>   but they have rebelled against me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_3">  <sup>3</sup>The ox knows its master, <br/>   the donkey its owner’s manger, <br/>  but Israel does not know, <br/>   my people do not understand.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_4">  <sup>4</sup>Woe to the sinful nation, <br/>   a people whose guilt is great, <br/>  a brood of evildoers, <br/>   children given to corruption! <br/>  They have forsaken the Lord; <br/>   they have spurned the Holy One of Israel <br/>   and turned their backs on him. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_5">  <sup>5</sup>Why should you be beaten anymore? <br/>   Why do you persist in rebellion? <br/>  Your whole head is injured, <br/>   your whole heart afflicted. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_6">  <sup>6</sup>From the sole of your foot to the top of your head <br/>   there is no soundness— <br/>  only wounds and welts <br/>   and open sores, <br/>  not cleansed or bandaged <br/>   or soothed with olive oil. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_7">  <sup>7</sup>Your country is desolate, <br/>   your cities burned with fire; <br/>  your fields are being stripped by foreigners <br/>   right before you, <br/>   laid waste as when overthrown by strangers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_8">  <sup>8</sup>Daughter Zion is left <br/>   like a shelter in a vineyard, <br/>  like a hut in a cucumber field, <br/>   like a city under siege. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_9">  <sup>9</sup>Unless the Lord Almighty <br/>   had left us some survivors, <br/>  we would have become like Sodom, <br/>   we would have been like Gomorrah. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_10">  <sup>10</sup>Hear the word of the Lord, <br/>   you rulers of Sodom; <br/>  listen to the instruction of our God, <br/>   you people of Gomorrah! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_11">  <sup>11</sup>“The multitude of your sacrifices— <br/>   what are they to me?” says the Lord. <br/>  “I have more than enough of burnt offerings, <br/>   of rams and the fat of fattened animals; <br/>  I have no pleasure <br/>   in the blood of bulls and lambs and goats. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_12">  <sup>12</sup>When you come to appear before me, <br/>   who has asked this of you, <br/>   this trampling of my courts? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_13">  <sup>13</sup>Stop bringing meaningless offerings! <br/>   Your incense is detestable to me. <br/>  New Moons, Sabbaths and convocations— <br/>   I cannot bear your worthless assemblies. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_14">  <sup>14</sup>Your New Moon feasts and your appointed festivals <br/>   I hate with all my being. <br/>  They have become a burden to me; <br/>   I am weary of bearing them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_15">  <sup>15</sup>When you spread out your hands in prayer, <br/>   I hide my eyes from you; <br/>  even when you offer many prayers, <br/>   I am not listening. <br/><br/>  Your hands are full of blood! <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_16">  <sup>16</sup>Wash and make yourselves clean. <br/>   Take your evil deeds out of my sight; <br/>   stop doing wrong. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_17">  <sup>17</sup>Learn to do right; seek justice. <br/>   Defend the oppressed.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or justice. / Correct the oppressor">⚓</a><br/>  Take up the cause of the fatherless; <br/>   plead the case of the widow. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_18">  <sup>18</sup>“Come now, let us settle the matter,” <br/>   says the Lord. <br/>  “Though your sins are like scarlet, <br/>   they shall be as white as snow; <br/>  though they are red as crimson, <br/>   they shall be like wool. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_19">  <sup>19</sup>If you are willing and obedient, <br/>   you will eat the good things of the land; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_20">  <sup>20</sup>but if you resist and rebel, <br/>   you will be devoured by the sword.” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_21">  <sup>21</sup>See how the faithful city <br/>   has become a prostitute! <br/>  She once was full of justice; <br/>   righteousness used to dwell in her— <br/>   but now murderers! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_22">  <sup>22</sup>Your silver has become dross, <br/>   your choice wine is diluted with water. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_23">  <sup>23</sup>Your rulers are rebels, <br/>   partners with thieves; <br/>  they all love bribes <br/>   and chase after gifts. <br/>  They do not defend the cause of the fatherless; <br/>   the widow’s case does not come before them. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_24">  <sup>24</sup>Therefore the Lord, the Lord Almighty, <br/>   the Mighty One of Israel, declares: <br/>  “Ah! I will vent my wrath on my foes <br/>   and avenge myself on my enemies. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_25">  <sup>25</sup>I will turn my hand against you;<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, against Jerusalem">⚓</a><br/>   I will thoroughly purge away your dross <br/>   and remove all your impurities. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_26">  <sup>26</sup>I will restore your leaders as in days of old, <br/>   your rulers as at the beginning. <br/>  Afterward you will be called <br/>   the City of Righteousness, <br/>   the Faithful City.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_27">  <sup>27</sup>Zion will be delivered with justice, <br/>   her penitent ones with righteousness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_28">  <sup>28</sup>But rebels and sinners will both be broken, <br/>   and those who forsake the Lord will perish. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_29">  <sup>29</sup>“You will be ashamed because of the sacred oaks <br/>   in which you have delighted; <br/>  you will be disgraced because of the gardens <br/>   that you have chosen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_30">  <sup>30</sup>You will be like an oak with fading leaves, <br/>   like a garden without water. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_1_31">  <sup>31</sup>The mighty man will become tinder <br/>   and his work a spark; <br/>  both will burn together, <br/>   with no one to quench the fire.” <br/></span>
