---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Judgment on Jerusalem and Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_3_1">  <sup>1</sup>See now, the Lord, <br/>   the Lord Almighty, <br/>  is about to take from Jerusalem and Judah <br/>   both supply and support: <br/>  all supplies of food and all supplies of water, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_2">   <sup>2</sup>the hero and the warrior, <br/>  the judge and the prophet, <br/>   the diviner and the elder, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_3">  <sup>3</sup>the captain of fifty and the man of rank, <br/>   the counselor, skilled craftsman and clever enchanter. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_4">  <sup>4</sup>“I will make mere youths their officials; <br/>   children will rule over them.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_5">  <sup>5</sup>People will oppress each other— <br/>   man against man, neighbor against neighbor. <br/>  The young will rise up against the old, <br/>   the nobody against the honored. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_6">  <sup>6</sup>A man will seize one of his brothers <br/>   in his father’s house, and say, <br/>  “You have a cloak, you be our leader; <br/>   take charge of this heap of ruins!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_7">  <sup>7</sup>But in that day he will cry out, <br/>   “I have no remedy. <br/>  I have no food or clothing in my house; <br/>   do not make me the leader of the people.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_8">  <sup>8</sup>Jerusalem staggers, <br/>   Judah is falling; <br/>  their words and deeds are against the Lord, <br/>   defying his glorious presence. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_9">  <sup>9</sup>The look on their faces testifies against them; <br/>   they parade their sin like Sodom; <br/>   they do not hide it. <br/>  Woe to them! <br/>   They have brought disaster upon themselves. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_10">  <sup>10</sup>Tell the righteous it will be well with them, <br/>   for they will enjoy the fruit of their deeds. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_11">  <sup>11</sup>Woe to the wicked! <br/>   Disaster is upon them! <br/>  They will be paid back <br/>   for what their hands have done. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_12">  <sup>12</sup>Youths oppress my people, <br/>   women rule over them. <br/>  My people, your guides lead you astray; <br/>   they turn you from the path. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_13">  <sup>13</sup>The Lord takes his place in court; <br/>   he rises to judge the people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_14">  <sup>14</sup>The Lord enters into judgment <br/>   against the elders and leaders of his people: <br/>  “It is you who have ruined my vineyard; <br/>   the plunder from the poor is in your houses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_15">  <sup>15</sup>What do you mean by crushing my people <br/>   and grinding the faces of the poor?” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord, the Lord Almighty. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_16">  <sup>16</sup>The Lord says, <br/>   “The women of Zion are haughty, <br/>  walking along with outstretched necks, <br/>   flirting with their eyes, <br/>  strutting along with swaying hips, <br/>   with ornaments jingling on their ankles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_17">  <sup>17</sup>Therefore the Lord will bring sores on the heads of the women of Zion; <br/>   the Lord will make their scalps bald.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_18"> <sup>18</sup>In that day the Lord will snatch away their finery: the bangles and headbands and crescent necklaces, </span>
<span class="verse es_3_19"><sup>19</sup>the earrings and bracelets and veils, </span>
<span class="verse es_3_20"><sup>20</sup>the headdresses and anklets and sashes, the perfume bottles and charms, </span>
<span class="verse es_3_21"><sup>21</sup>the signet rings and nose rings, </span>
<span class="verse es_3_22"><sup>22</sup>the fine robes and the capes and cloaks, the purses </span>
<span class="verse es_3_23"><sup>23</sup>and mirrors, and the linen garments and tiaras and shawls. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_24">  <sup>24</sup>Instead of fragrance there will be a stench; <br/>   instead of a sash, a rope; <br/>  instead of well-dressed hair, baldness; <br/>   instead of fine clothing, sackcloth; <br/>   instead of beauty, branding. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_25">  <sup>25</sup>Your men will fall by the sword, <br/>   your warriors in battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_3_26">  <sup>26</sup>The gates of Zion will lament and mourn; <br/>   destitute, she will sit on the ground. <br/><br/></span>
