---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>The Song of the Vineyard </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_5_1">  <sup>1</sup>I will sing for the one I love <br/>   a song about his vineyard: <br/>  My loved one had a vineyard <br/>   on a fertile hillside. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_2">  <sup>2</sup>He dug it up and cleared it of stones <br/>   and planted it with the choicest vines. <br/>  He built a watchtower in it <br/>   and cut out a winepress as well. <br/>  Then he looked for a crop of good grapes, <br/>   but it yielded only bad fruit. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_3">  <sup>3</sup>“Now you dwellers in Jerusalem and people of Judah, <br/>   judge between me and my vineyard. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_4">  <sup>4</sup>What more could have been done for my vineyard <br/>   than I have done for it? <br/>  When I looked for good grapes, <br/>   why did it yield only bad? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_5">  <sup>5</sup>Now I will tell you <br/>   what I am going to do to my vineyard: <br/>  I will take away its hedge, <br/>   and it will be destroyed; <br/>  I will break down its wall, <br/>   and it will be trampled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_6">  <sup>6</sup>I will make it a wasteland, <br/>   neither pruned nor cultivated, <br/>   and briers and thorns will grow there. <br/>  I will command the clouds <br/>   not to rain on it.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_7">  <sup>7</sup>The vineyard of the Lord Almighty <br/>   is the nation of Israel, <br/>  and the people of Judah <br/>   are the vines he delighted in. <br/>  And he looked for justice, but saw bloodshed; <br/>   for righteousness, but heard cries of distress. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Woes and Judgments </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_5_8">  <sup>8</sup>Woe to you who add house to house <br/>   and join field to field <br/>  till no space is left <br/>   and you live alone in the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Lord Almighty has declared in my hearing: <br/>  “Surely the great houses will become desolate, <br/>   the fine mansions left without occupants. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_10">  <sup>10</sup>A ten-acre vineyard will produce only a bath<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 6 gallons or about 22 liters">⚓</a> of wine; <br/>   a homer<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 360 pounds or about 160 kilograms">⚓</a> of seed will yield only an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 36 pounds or about 16 kilograms">⚓</a> of grain.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_11">  <sup>11</sup>Woe to those who rise early in the morning <br/>   to run after their drinks, <br/>  who stay up late at night <br/>   till they are inflamed with wine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_12">  <sup>12</sup>They have harps and lyres at their banquets, <br/>   pipes and timbrels and wine, <br/>  but they have no regard for the deeds of the Lord, <br/>   no respect for the work of his hands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_13">  <sup>13</sup>Therefore my people will go into exile <br/>   for lack of understanding; <br/>  those of high rank will die of hunger <br/>   and the common people will be parched with thirst. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_14">  <sup>14</sup>Therefore Death expands its jaws, <br/>   opening wide its mouth; <br/>  into it will descend their nobles and masses <br/>   with all their brawlers and revelers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_15">  <sup>15</sup>So people will be brought low <br/>   and everyone humbled, <br/>   the eyes of the arrogant humbled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_16">  <sup>16</sup>But the Lord Almighty will be exalted by his justice, <br/>   and the holy God will be proved holy by his righteous acts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_17">  <sup>17</sup>Then sheep will graze as in their own pasture; <br/>   lambs will feed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew / strangers will eat">⚓</a> among the ruins of the rich. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_18">  <sup>18</sup>Woe to those who draw sin along with cords of deceit, <br/>   and wickedness as with cart ropes, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_19">  <sup>19</sup>to those who say, “Let God hurry; <br/>   let him hasten his work <br/>   so we may see it. <br/>  The plan of the Holy One of Israel— <br/>   let it approach, let it come into view, <br/>   so we may know it.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_20">  <sup>20</sup>Woe to those who call evil good <br/>   and good evil, <br/>  who put darkness for light <br/>   and light for darkness, <br/>  who put bitter for sweet <br/>   and sweet for bitter. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_21">  <sup>21</sup>Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes <br/>   and clever in their own sight. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_22">  <sup>22</sup>Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine <br/>   and champions at mixing drinks, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_23">  <sup>23</sup>who acquit the guilty for a bribe, <br/>   but deny justice to the innocent. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_24">  <sup>24</sup>Therefore, as tongues of fire lick up straw <br/>   and as dry grass sinks down in the flames, <br/>  so their roots will decay <br/>   and their flowers blow away like dust; <br/>  for they have rejected the law of the Lord Almighty <br/>   and spurned the word of the Holy One of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_25">  <sup>25</sup>Therefore the Lord’s anger burns against his people; <br/>   his hand is raised and he strikes them down. <br/>  The mountains shake, <br/>   and the dead bodies are like refuse in the streets. <br/><br/>  Yet for all this, his anger is not turned away, <br/>   his hand is still upraised. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_26">  <sup>26</sup>He lifts up a banner for the distant nations, <br/>   he whistles for those at the ends of the earth. <br/>  Here they come, <br/>   swiftly and speedily! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_27">  <sup>27</sup>Not one of them grows tired or stumbles, <br/>   not one slumbers or sleeps; <br/>  not a belt is loosened at the waist, <br/>   not a sandal strap is broken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_28">  <sup>28</sup>Their arrows are sharp, <br/>   all their bows are strung; <br/>  their horses’ hooves seem like flint, <br/>   their chariot wheels like a whirlwind. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_29">  <sup>29</sup>Their roar is like that of the lion, <br/>   they roar like young lions; <br/>  they growl as they seize their prey <br/>   and carry it off with no one to rescue. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_5_30">  <sup>30</sup>In that day they will roar over it <br/>   like the roaring of the sea. <br/>  And if one looks at the land, <br/>   there is only darkness and distress; <br/>   even the sun will be darkened by clouds. <br/></span>
