---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>The Sign of Immanuel </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Ahaz son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, was king of Judah, King Rezin of Aram and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel marched up to fight against Jerusalem, but they could not overpower it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_7_2"> <sup>2</sup>Now the house of David was told, “Aram has allied itself with<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or has set up camp in">⚓</a> Ephraim”; so the hearts of Ahaz and his people were shaken, as the trees of the forest are shaken by the wind. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_7_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then the Lord said to Isaiah, “Go out, you and your son Shear-Jashub,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means a remnant will return.">⚓</a> to meet Ahaz at the end of the aqueduct of the Upper Pool, on the road to the Launderer’s Field. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_4"><sup>4</sup>Say to him, ‘Be careful, keep calm and don’t be afraid. Do not lose heart because of these two smoldering stubs of firewood—because of the fierce anger of Rezin and Aram and of the son of Remaliah. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_5"><sup>5</sup>Aram, Ephraim and Remaliah’s son have plotted your ruin, saying, </span>
<span class="verse es_7_6"><sup>6</sup>“Let us invade Judah; let us tear it apart and divide it among ourselves, and make the son of Tabeel king over it.” </span>
<span class="verse es_7_7"><sup>7</sup>Yet this is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘It will not take place, <br/>   it will not happen, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_7_8">  <sup>8</sup>for the head of Aram is Damascus, <br/>   and the head of Damascus is only Rezin. <br/>  Within sixty-five years <br/>   Ephraim will be too shattered to be a people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_7_9">  <sup>9</sup>The head of Ephraim is Samaria, <br/>   and the head of Samaria is only Remaliah’s son. <br/>  If you do not stand firm in your faith, <br/>   you will not stand at all.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_7_10"> <sup>10</sup>Again the Lord spoke to Ahaz, </span>
<span class="verse es_7_11"><sup>11</sup>“Ask the Lord your God for a sign, whether in the deepest depths or in the highest heights.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>But Ahaz said, “I will not ask; I will not put the Lord to the test.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then Isaiah said, “Hear now, you house of David! Is it not enough to try the patience of humans? Will you try the patience of my God also? </span>
<span class="verse es_7_14"><sup>14</sup>Therefore the Lord himself will give you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew is plural.">⚓</a> a sign: The virgin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or young woman">⚓</a> will conceive and give birth to a son, and<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls son, and he or son, and they">⚓</a> will call him Immanuel.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means God with us.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse es_7_15"><sup>15</sup>He will be eating curds and honey when he knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right, </span>
<span class="verse es_7_16"><sup>16</sup>for before the boy knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right, the land of the two kings you dread will be laid waste. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_17"><sup>17</sup>The Lord will bring on you and on your people and on the house of your father a time unlike any since Ephraim broke away from Judah—he will bring the king of Assyria.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Assyria, the Lord’s Instrument </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_7_18"> <sup>18</sup>In that day the Lord will whistle for flies from the Nile delta in Egypt and for bees from the land of Assyria. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_19"><sup>19</sup>They will all come and settle in the steep ravines and in the crevices in the rocks, on all the thornbushes and at all the water holes. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_20"><sup>20</sup>In that day the Lord will use a razor hired from beyond the Euphrates River—the king of Assyria—to shave your heads and private parts, and to cut off your beards also. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_21"><sup>21</sup>In that day, a person will keep alive a young cow and two goats. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_22"><sup>22</sup>And because of the abundance of the milk they give, there will be curds to eat. All who remain in the land will eat curds and honey. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_23"><sup>23</sup>In that day, in every place where there were a thousand vines worth a thousand silver shekels,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 25 pounds or about 12 kilograms">⚓</a> there will be only briers and thorns. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_24"><sup>24</sup>Hunters will go there with bow and arrow, for the land will be covered with briers and thorns. </span>
<span class="verse es_7_25"><sup>25</sup>As for all the hills once cultivated by the hoe, you will no longer go there for fear of the briers and thorns; they will become places where cattle are turned loose and where sheep run. <br/></span>
