---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>The Darkness Turns to Light </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>Nevertheless, there will be no more gloom for those who were in distress. In the past he humbled the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the future he will honor Galilee of the nations, by the Way of the Sea, beyond the Jordan— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_2">  <sup>2</sup>The people walking in darkness <br/>   have seen a great light; <br/>  on those living in the land of deep darkness <br/>   a light has dawned. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_3">  <sup>3</sup>You have enlarged the nation <br/>   and increased their joy; <br/>  they rejoice before you <br/>   as people rejoice at the harvest, <br/>  as warriors rejoice <br/>   when dividing the plunder. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_4">  <sup>4</sup>For as in the day of Midian’s defeat, <br/>   you have shattered <br/>  the yoke that burdens them, <br/>   the bar across their shoulders, <br/>   the rod of their oppressor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_5">  <sup>5</sup>Every warrior’s boot used in battle <br/>   and every garment rolled in blood <br/>  will be destined for burning, <br/>   will be fuel for the fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_6">  <sup>6</sup>For to us a child is born, <br/>   to us a son is given, <br/>   and the government will be on his shoulders. <br/>  And he will be called <br/>   Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, <br/>   Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_7">  <sup>7</sup>Of the greatness of his government and peace <br/>   there will be no end. <br/>  He will reign on David’s throne <br/>   and over his kingdom, <br/>  establishing and upholding it <br/>   with justice and righteousness <br/>   from that time on and forever. <br/>  The zeal of the Lord Almighty <br/>   will accomplish this. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Lord’s Anger Against Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_9_8">  <sup>8</sup>The Lord has sent a message against Jacob; <br/>   it will fall on Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_9">  <sup>9</sup>All the people will know it— <br/>   Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria— <br/>  who say with pride <br/>   and arrogance of heart, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_10">  <sup>10</sup>“The bricks have fallen down, <br/>   but we will rebuild with dressed stone; <br/>  the fig trees have been felled, <br/>   but we will replace them with cedars.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_11">  <sup>11</sup>But the Lord has strengthened Rezin’s foes against them <br/>   and has spurred their enemies on. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_12">  <sup>12</sup>Arameans from the east and Philistines from the west <br/>   have devoured Israel with open mouth. <br/><br/>  Yet for all this, his anger is not turned away, <br/>   his hand is still upraised. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_13">  <sup>13</sup>But the people have not returned to him who struck them, <br/>   nor have they sought the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_14">  <sup>14</sup>So the Lord will cut off from Israel both head and tail, <br/>   both palm branch and reed in a single day; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_15">  <sup>15</sup>the elders and dignitaries are the head, <br/>   the prophets who teach lies are the tail. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_16">  <sup>16</sup>Those who guide this people mislead them, <br/>   and those who are guided are led astray. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_17">  <sup>17</sup>Therefore the Lord will take no pleasure in the young men, <br/>   nor will he pity the fatherless and widows, <br/>  for everyone is ungodly and wicked, <br/>   every mouth speaks folly. <br/><br/>  Yet for all this, his anger is not turned away, <br/>   his hand is still upraised. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_18">  <sup>18</sup>Surely wickedness burns like a fire; <br/>   it consumes briers and thorns, <br/>  it sets the forest thickets ablaze, <br/>   so that it rolls upward in a column of smoke. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_19">  <sup>19</sup>By the wrath of the Lord Almighty <br/>   the land will be scorched <br/>  and the people will be fuel for the fire; <br/>   they will not spare one another. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_20">  <sup>20</sup>On the right they will devour, <br/>   but still be hungry; <br/>  on the left they will eat, <br/>   but not be satisfied. <br/>  Each will feed on the flesh of their own offspring<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or arm">⚓</a> : <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_9_21">   <sup>21</sup>Manasseh will feed on Ephraim, and Ephraim on Manasseh; <br/>   together they will turn against Judah. <br/><br/>  Yet for all this, his anger is not turned away, <br/>   his hand is still upraised. <br/><br/></span>
