---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1></div>
<span class="verse es_10_1">  <sup>1</sup>Woe to those who make unjust laws, <br/>   to those who issue oppressive decrees, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_2">  <sup>2</sup>to deprive the poor of their rights <br/>   and withhold justice from the oppressed of my people, <br/>  making widows their prey <br/>   and robbing the fatherless. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_3">  <sup>3</sup>What will you do on the day of reckoning, <br/>   when disaster comes from afar? <br/>  To whom will you run for help? <br/>   Where will you leave your riches? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_4">  <sup>4</sup>Nothing will remain but to cringe among the captives <br/>   or fall among the slain. <br/><br/>  Yet for all this, his anger is not turned away, <br/>   his hand is still upraised. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Judgment on Assyria </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_10_5">  <sup>5</sup>“Woe to the Assyrian, the rod of my anger, <br/>   in whose hand is the club of my wrath! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_6">  <sup>6</sup>I send him against a godless nation, <br/>   I dispatch him against a people who anger me, <br/>  to seize loot and snatch plunder, <br/>   and to trample them down like mud in the streets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_7">  <sup>7</sup>But this is not what he intends, <br/>   this is not what he has in mind; <br/>  his purpose is to destroy, <br/>   to put an end to many nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_8">  <sup>8</sup>‘Are not my commanders all kings?’ he says. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_9">   <sup>9</sup>‘Has not Kalno fared like Carchemish? <br/>  Is not Hamath like Arpad, <br/>   and Samaria like Damascus? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_10">  <sup>10</sup>As my hand seized the kingdoms of the idols, <br/>   kingdoms whose images excelled those of Jerusalem and Samaria— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_11">  <sup>11</sup>shall I not deal with Jerusalem and her images <br/>   as I dealt with Samaria and her idols?’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>When the Lord has finished all his work against Mount Zion and Jerusalem, he will say, “I will punish the king of Assyria for the willful pride of his heart and the haughty look in his eyes. </span>
<span class="verse es_10_13"><sup>13</sup>For he says: <br/>  “ ‘By the strength of my hand I have done this, <br/>   and by my wisdom, because I have understanding. <br/>  I removed the boundaries of nations, <br/>   I plundered their treasures; <br/>   like a mighty one I subdued<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or treasures; / I subdued the mighty,">⚓</a> their kings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_14">  <sup>14</sup>As one reaches into a nest, <br/>   so my hand reached for the wealth of the nations; <br/>  as people gather abandoned eggs, <br/>   so I gathered all the countries; <br/>  not one flapped a wing, <br/>   or opened its mouth to chirp.’ ” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_15">  <sup>15</sup>Does the ax raise itself above the person who swings it, <br/>   or the saw boast against the one who uses it? <br/>  As if a rod were to wield the person who lifts it up, <br/>   or a club brandish the one who is not wood! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_16">  <sup>16</sup>Therefore, the Lord, the Lord Almighty, <br/>   will send a wasting disease upon his sturdy warriors; <br/>  under his pomp a fire will be kindled <br/>   like a blazing flame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_17">  <sup>17</sup>The Light of Israel will become a fire, <br/>   their Holy One a flame; <br/>  in a single day it will burn and consume <br/>   his thorns and his briers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_18">  <sup>18</sup>The splendor of his forests and fertile fields <br/>   it will completely destroy, <br/>   as when a sick person wastes away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_19">  <sup>19</sup>And the remaining trees of his forests will be so few <br/>   that a child could write them down. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Remnant of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_10_20">  <sup>20</sup>In that day the remnant of Israel, <br/>   the survivors of Jacob, <br/>  will no longer rely on him <br/>   who struck them down <br/>  but will truly rely on the Lord, <br/>   the Holy One of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_21">  <sup>21</sup>A remnant will return,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew shear-jashub (see 7:3 and note); also in verse 22">⚓</a> a remnant of Jacob <br/>   will return to the Mighty God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_22">  <sup>22</sup>Though your people be like the sand by the sea, Israel, <br/>   only a remnant will return. <br/>  Destruction has been decreed, <br/>   overwhelming and righteous. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_23">  <sup>23</sup>The Lord, the Lord Almighty, will carry out <br/>   the destruction decreed upon the whole land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_24"> <sup>24</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord, the Lord Almighty, says: <br/>  “My people who live in Zion, <br/>   do not be afraid of the Assyrians, <br/>  who beat you with a rod <br/>   and lift up a club against you, as Egypt did. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_25">  <sup>25</sup>Very soon my anger against you will end <br/>   and my wrath will be directed to their destruction.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_26">  <sup>26</sup>The Lord Almighty will lash them with a whip, <br/>   as when he struck down Midian at the rock of Oreb; <br/>  and he will raise his staff over the waters, <br/>   as he did in Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_27">  <sup>27</sup>In that day their burden will be lifted from your shoulders, <br/>   their yoke from your neck; <br/>  the yoke will be broken <br/>   because you have grown so fat.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint broken / from your shoulders">⚓</a><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_28">  <sup>28</sup>They enter Aiath; <br/>   they pass through Migron; <br/>   they store supplies at Mikmash. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_29">  <sup>29</sup>They go over the pass, and say, <br/>   “We will camp overnight at Geba.” <br/>  Ramah trembles; <br/>   Gibeah of Saul flees. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_30">  <sup>30</sup>Cry out, Daughter Gallim! <br/>   Listen, Laishah! <br/>   Poor Anathoth! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_31">  <sup>31</sup>Madmenah is in flight; <br/>   the people of Gebim take cover. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_32">  <sup>32</sup>This day they will halt at Nob; <br/>   they will shake their fist <br/>  at the mount of Daughter Zion, <br/>   at the hill of Jerusalem. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_33">  <sup>33</sup>See, the Lord, the Lord Almighty, <br/>   will lop off the boughs with great power. <br/>  The lofty trees will be felled, <br/>   the tall ones will be brought low. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_10_34">  <sup>34</sup>He will cut down the forest thickets with an ax; <br/>   Lebanon will fall before the Mighty One. <br/></span>
