---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>The Branch From Jesse </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_11_1">  <sup>1</sup>A shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse; <br/>   from his roots a Branch will bear fruit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_2">  <sup>2</sup>The Spirit of the Lord will rest on him— <br/>   the Spirit of wisdom and of understanding, <br/>   the Spirit of counsel and of might, <br/>   the Spirit of the knowledge and fear of the Lord— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_3">  <sup>3</sup>and he will delight in the fear of the Lord. <br/><br/>  He will not judge by what he sees with his eyes, <br/>   or decide by what he hears with his ears; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_4">  <sup>4</sup>but with righteousness he will judge the needy, <br/>   with justice he will give decisions for the poor of the earth. <br/>  He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth; <br/>   with the breath of his lips he will slay the wicked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_5">  <sup>5</sup>Righteousness will be his belt <br/>   and faithfulness the sash around his waist. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_6">  <sup>6</sup>The wolf will live with the lamb, <br/>   the leopard will lie down with the goat, <br/>  the calf and the lion and the yearling<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint lion will feed">⚓</a> together; <br/>   and a little child will lead them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_7">  <sup>7</sup>The cow will feed with the bear, <br/>   their young will lie down together, <br/>   and the lion will eat straw like the ox. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_8">  <sup>8</sup>The infant will play near the cobra’s den, <br/>   and the young child will put its hand into the viper’s nest. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_9">  <sup>9</sup>They will neither harm nor destroy <br/>   on all my holy mountain, <br/>  for the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord<br/>   as the waters cover the sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_10"> <sup>10</sup>In that day the Root of Jesse will stand as a banner for the peoples; the nations will rally to him, and his resting place will be glorious. </span>
<span class="verse es_11_11"><sup>11</sup>In that day the Lord will reach out his hand a second time to reclaim the surviving remnant of his people from Assyria, from Lower Egypt, from Upper Egypt, from Cush,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the upper Nile region">⚓</a> from Elam, from Babylonia,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Shinar">⚓</a> from Hamath and from the islands of the Mediterranean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_12">  <sup>12</sup>He will raise a banner for the nations <br/>   and gather the exiles of Israel; <br/>  he will assemble the scattered people of Judah <br/>   from the four quarters of the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_13">  <sup>13</sup>Ephraim’s jealousy will vanish, <br/>   and Judah’s enemies<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or hostility">⚓</a> will be destroyed; <br/>  Ephraim will not be jealous of Judah, <br/>   nor Judah hostile toward Ephraim. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_14">  <sup>14</sup>They will swoop down on the slopes of Philistia to the west; <br/>   together they will plunder the people to the east. <br/>  They will subdue Edom and Moab, <br/>   and the Ammonites will be subject to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_15">  <sup>15</sup>The Lord will dry up <br/>   the gulf of the Egyptian sea; <br/>  with a scorching wind he will sweep his hand <br/>   over the Euphrates River. <br/>  He will break it up into seven streams <br/>   so that anyone can cross over in sandals. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_11_16">  <sup>16</sup>There will be a highway for the remnant of his people <br/>   that is left from Assyria, <br/>  as there was for Israel <br/>   when they came up from Egypt. <br/></span>
