---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>A Prophecy Against Babylon </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>A prophecy against Babylon that Isaiah son of Amoz saw: <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_2">  <sup>2</sup>Raise a banner on a bare hilltop, <br/>   shout to them; <br/>  beckon to them <br/>   to enter the gates of the nobles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_3">  <sup>3</sup>I have commanded those I prepared for battle; <br/>   I have summoned my warriors to carry out my wrath— <br/>   those who rejoice in my triumph. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_4">  <sup>4</sup>Listen, a noise on the mountains, <br/>   like that of a great multitude! <br/>  Listen, an uproar among the kingdoms, <br/>   like nations massing together! <br/>  The Lord Almighty is mustering <br/>   an army for war. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_5">  <sup>5</sup>They come from faraway lands, <br/>   from the ends of the heavens— <br/>  the Lord and the weapons of his wrath— <br/>   to destroy the whole country. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_6">  <sup>6</sup>Wail, for the day of the Lord is near; <br/>   it will come like destruction from the Almighty.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Shaddai">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_7">  <sup>7</sup>Because of this, all hands will go limp, <br/>   every heart will melt with fear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_8">  <sup>8</sup>Terror will seize them, <br/>   pain and anguish will grip them; <br/>   they will writhe like a woman in labor. <br/>  They will look aghast at each other, <br/>   their faces aflame. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_9">  <sup>9</sup>See, the day of the Lord is coming <br/>   —a cruel day, with wrath and fierce anger— <br/>  to make the land desolate <br/>   and destroy the sinners within it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_10">  <sup>10</sup>The stars of heaven and their constellations <br/>   will not show their light. <br/>  The rising sun will be darkened <br/>   and the moon will not give its light. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_11">  <sup>11</sup>I will punish the world for its evil, <br/>   the wicked for their sins. <br/>  I will put an end to the arrogance of the haughty <br/>   and will humble the pride of the ruthless. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_12">  <sup>12</sup>I will make people scarcer than pure gold, <br/>   more rare than the gold of Ophir. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_13">  <sup>13</sup>Therefore I will make the heavens tremble; <br/>   and the earth will shake from its place <br/>  at the wrath of the Lord Almighty, <br/>   in the day of his burning anger. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_14">  <sup>14</sup>Like a hunted gazelle, <br/>   like sheep without a shepherd, <br/>  they will all return to their own people, <br/>   they will flee to their native land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_15">  <sup>15</sup>Whoever is captured will be thrust through; <br/>   all who are caught will fall by the sword. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_16">  <sup>16</sup>Their infants will be dashed to pieces before their eyes; <br/>   their houses will be looted and their wives violated. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_17">  <sup>17</sup>See, I will stir up against them the Medes, <br/>   who do not care for silver <br/>   and have no delight in gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_18">  <sup>18</sup>Their bows will strike down the young men; <br/>   they will have no mercy on infants, <br/>   nor will they look with compassion on children. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_19">  <sup>19</sup>Babylon, the jewel of kingdoms, <br/>   the pride and glory of the Babylonians,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a><br/>  will be overthrown by God <br/>   like Sodom and Gomorrah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_20">  <sup>20</sup>She will never be inhabited <br/>   or lived in through all generations; <br/>  there no nomads will pitch their tents, <br/>   there no shepherds will rest their flocks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_21">  <sup>21</sup>But desert creatures will lie there, <br/>   jackals will fill her houses; <br/>  there the owls will dwell, <br/>   and there the wild goats will leap about. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_13_22">  <sup>22</sup>Hyenas will inhabit her strongholds, <br/>   jackals her luxurious palaces. <br/>  Her time is at hand, <br/>   and her days will not be prolonged. <br/><br/></span>
