---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1></div>
<span class="verse es_14_1">  <sup>1</sup>The Lord will have compassion on Jacob; <br/>   once again he will choose Israel <br/>   and will settle them in their own land. <br/>  Foreigners will join them <br/>   and unite with the descendants of Jacob. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_2">  <sup>2</sup>Nations will take them <br/>   and bring them to their own place. <br/>  And Israel will take possession of the nations <br/>   and make them male and female servants in the Lord’s land. <br/>  They will make captives of their captors <br/>   and rule over their oppressors. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_3"> <sup>3</sup>On the day the Lord gives you relief from your suffering and turmoil and from the harsh labor forced on you, </span>
<span class="verse es_14_4"><sup>4</sup>you will take up this taunt against the king of Babylon: <br/>  How the oppressor has come to an end! <br/>   How his fury<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls, Septuagint and Syriac; the meaning of the word in the Masoretic Text is uncertain.">⚓</a> has ended! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_5">  <sup>5</sup>The Lord has broken the rod of the wicked, <br/>   the scepter of the rulers, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_6">  <sup>6</sup>which in anger struck down peoples <br/>   with unceasing blows, <br/>  and in fury subdued nations <br/>   with relentless aggression. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_7">  <sup>7</sup>All the lands are at rest and at peace; <br/>   they break into singing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_8">  <sup>8</sup>Even the junipers and the cedars of Lebanon <br/>   gloat over you and say, <br/>  “Now that you have been laid low, <br/>   no one comes to cut us down.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_9">  <sup>9</sup>The realm of the dead below is all astir <br/>   to meet you at your coming; <br/>  it rouses the spirits of the departed to greet you— <br/>   all those who were leaders in the world; <br/>  it makes them rise from their thrones— <br/>   all those who were kings over the nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_10">  <sup>10</sup>They will all respond, <br/>   they will say to you, <br/>  “You also have become weak, as we are; <br/>   you have become like us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_11">  <sup>11</sup>All your pomp has been brought down to the grave, <br/>   along with the noise of your harps; <br/>  maggots are spread out beneath you <br/>   and worms cover you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_12">  <sup>12</sup>How you have fallen from heaven, <br/>   morning star, son of the dawn! <br/>  You have been cast down to the earth, <br/>   you who once laid low the nations! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_13">  <sup>13</sup>You said in your heart, <br/>   “I will ascend to the heavens; <br/>  I will raise my throne <br/>   above the stars of God; <br/>  I will sit enthroned on the mount of assembly, <br/>   on the utmost heights of Mount Zaphon.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or of the north ; Zaphon was the most sacred mountain of the Canaanites.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_14">  <sup>14</sup>I will ascend above the tops of the clouds; <br/>   I will make myself like the Most High.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_15">  <sup>15</sup>But you are brought down to the realm of the dead, <br/>   to the depths of the pit. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_16">  <sup>16</sup>Those who see you stare at you, <br/>   they ponder your fate: <br/>  “Is this the man who shook the earth <br/>   and made kingdoms tremble, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_17">  <sup>17</sup>the man who made the world a wilderness, <br/>   who overthrew its cities <br/>   and would not let his captives go home?” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_18">  <sup>18</sup>All the kings of the nations lie in state, <br/>   each in his own tomb. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_19">  <sup>19</sup>But you are cast out of your tomb <br/>   like a rejected branch; <br/>  you are covered with the slain, <br/>   with those pierced by the sword, <br/>   those who descend to the stones of the pit. <br/>  Like a corpse trampled underfoot, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_20">   <sup>20</sup>you will not join them in burial, <br/>  for you have destroyed your land <br/>   and killed your people. <br/><br/>  Let the offspring of the wicked <br/>   never be mentioned again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_21">  <sup>21</sup>Prepare a place to slaughter his children <br/>   for the sins of their ancestors; <br/>  they are not to rise to inherit the land <br/>   and cover the earth with their cities. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_22">  <sup>22</sup>“I will rise up against them,” <br/>   declares the Lord Almighty. <br/>  “I will wipe out Babylon’s name and survivors, <br/>   her offspring and descendants,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_23">  <sup>23</sup>“I will turn her into a place for owls <br/>   and into swampland; <br/>  I will sweep her with the broom of destruction,” <br/>   declares the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_24"> <sup>24</sup>The Lord Almighty has sworn, <br/>  “Surely, as I have planned, so it will be, <br/>   and as I have purposed, so it will happen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_25">  <sup>25</sup>I will crush the Assyrian in my land; <br/>   on my mountains I will trample him down. <br/>  His yoke will be taken from my people, <br/>   and his burden removed from their shoulders.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_26">  <sup>26</sup>This is the plan determined for the whole world; <br/>   this is the hand stretched out over all nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_27">  <sup>27</sup>For the Lord Almighty has purposed, and who can thwart him? <br/>   His hand is stretched out, and who can turn it back? <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Prophecy Against the Philistines </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_14_28"> <sup>28</sup>This prophecy came in the year King Ahaz died: <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_29">  <sup>29</sup>Do not rejoice, all you Philistines, <br/>   that the rod that struck you is broken; <br/>  from the root of that snake will spring up a viper, <br/>   its fruit will be a darting, venomous serpent. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_30">  <sup>30</sup>The poorest of the poor will find pasture, <br/>   and the needy will lie down in safety. <br/>  But your root I will destroy by famine; <br/>   it will slay your survivors. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_31">  <sup>31</sup>Wail, you gate! Howl, you city! <br/>   Melt away, all you Philistines! <br/>  A cloud of smoke comes from the north, <br/>   and there is not a straggler in its ranks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_14_32">  <sup>32</sup>What answer shall be given <br/>   to the envoys of that nation? <br/>  “The Lord has established Zion, <br/>   and in her his afflicted people will find refuge.” <br/></span>
