---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1></div>
<span class="verse es_16_1">  <sup>1</sup>Send lambs as tribute <br/>   to the ruler of the land, <br/>  from Sela, across the desert, <br/>   to the mount of Daughter Zion. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_2">  <sup>2</sup>Like fluttering birds <br/>   pushed from the nest, <br/>  so are the women of Moab <br/>   at the fords of the Arnon. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_3">  <sup>3</sup>“Make up your mind,” Moab says. <br/>   “Render a decision. <br/>  Make your shadow like night— <br/>   at high noon. <br/>  Hide the fugitives, <br/>   do not betray the refugees. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_4">  <sup>4</sup>Let the Moabite fugitives stay with you; <br/>   be their shelter from the destroyer.” <br/><br/>  The oppressor will come to an end, <br/>   and destruction will cease; <br/>   the aggressor will vanish from the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_5">  <sup>5</sup>In love a throne will be established; <br/>   in faithfulness a man will sit on it— <br/>   one from the house<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew tent">⚓</a> of David— <br/>  one who in judging seeks justice <br/>   and speeds the cause of righteousness. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_6">  <sup>6</sup>We have heard of Moab’s pride— <br/>   how great is her arrogance!— <br/>  of her conceit, her pride and her insolence; <br/>   but her boasts are empty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_7">  <sup>7</sup>Therefore the Moabites wail, <br/>   they wail together for Moab. <br/>  Lament and grieve <br/>   for the raisin cakes of Kir Hareseth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_8">  <sup>8</sup>The fields of Heshbon wither, <br/>   the vines of Sibmah also. <br/>  The rulers of the nations <br/>   have trampled down the choicest vines, <br/>  which once reached Jazer <br/>   and spread toward the desert. <br/>  Their shoots spread out <br/>   and went as far as the sea.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probably the Dead Sea">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_9">  <sup>9</sup>So I weep, as Jazer weeps, <br/>   for the vines of Sibmah. <br/>  Heshbon and Elealeh, <br/>   I drench you with tears! <br/>  The shouts of joy over your ripened fruit <br/>   and over your harvests have been stilled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_10">  <sup>10</sup>Joy and gladness are taken away from the orchards; <br/>   no one sings or shouts in the vineyards; <br/>  no one treads out wine at the presses, <br/>   for I have put an end to the shouting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_11">  <sup>11</sup>My heart laments for Moab like a harp, <br/>   my inmost being for Kir Hareseth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_12">  <sup>12</sup>When Moab appears at her high place, <br/>   she only wears herself out; <br/>  when she goes to her shrine to pray, <br/>   it is to no avail. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_16_13"> <sup>13</sup>This is the word the Lord has already spoken concerning Moab. </span>
<span class="verse es_16_14"><sup>14</sup>But now the Lord says: “Within three years, as a servant bound by contract would count them, Moab’s splendor and all her many people will be despised, and her survivors will be very few and feeble.” <br/></span>
