---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>A Prophecy Against Damascus </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>A prophecy against Damascus: <br/>  “See, Damascus will no longer be a city <br/>   but will become a heap of ruins. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_2">  <sup>2</sup>The cities of Aroer will be deserted <br/>   and left to flocks, which will lie down, <br/>   with no one to make them afraid. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_3">  <sup>3</sup>The fortified city will disappear from Ephraim, <br/>   and royal power from Damascus; <br/>  the remnant of Aram will be <br/>   like the glory of the Israelites,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord Almighty. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_4">  <sup>4</sup>“In that day the glory of Jacob will fade; <br/>   the fat of his body will waste away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_5">  <sup>5</sup>It will be as when reapers harvest the standing grain, <br/>   gathering the grain in their arms— <br/>  as when someone gleans heads of grain <br/>   in the Valley of Rephaim. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_6">  <sup>6</sup>Yet some gleanings will remain, <br/>   as when an olive tree is beaten, <br/>  leaving two or three olives on the topmost branches, <br/>   four or five on the fruitful boughs,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord, the God of Israel. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_7">  <sup>7</sup>In that day people will look to their Maker <br/>   and turn their eyes to the Holy One of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_8">  <sup>8</sup>They will not look to the altars, <br/>   the work of their hands, <br/>  and they will have no regard for the Asherah poles<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, wooden symbols of the goddess Asherah">⚓</a><br/>   and the incense altars their fingers have made. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_9"> <sup>9</sup>In that day their strong cities, which they left because of the Israelites, will be like places abandoned to thickets and undergrowth. And all will be desolation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_10">  <sup>10</sup>You have forgotten God your Savior; <br/>   you have not remembered the Rock, your fortress. <br/>  Therefore, though you set out the finest plants <br/>   and plant imported vines, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_11">  <sup>11</sup>though on the day you set them out, you make them grow, <br/>   and on the morning when you plant them, you bring them to bud, <br/>  yet the harvest will be as nothing <br/>   in the day of disease and incurable pain. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_12">  <sup>12</sup>Woe to the many nations that rage— <br/>   they rage like the raging sea! <br/>  Woe to the peoples who roar— <br/>   they roar like the roaring of great waters! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_13">  <sup>13</sup>Although the peoples roar like the roar of surging waters, <br/>   when he rebukes them they flee far away, <br/>  driven before the wind like chaff on the hills, <br/>   like tumbleweed before a gale. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_17_14">  <sup>14</sup>In the evening, sudden terror! <br/>   Before the morning, they are gone! <br/>  This is the portion of those who loot us, <br/>   the lot of those who plunder us. <br/></span>
