---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>A Prophecy Against Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>A prophecy against Egypt: <br/>  See, the Lord rides on a swift cloud <br/>   and is coming to Egypt. <br/>  The idols of Egypt tremble before him, <br/>   and the hearts of the Egyptians melt with fear. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_2">  <sup>2</sup>“I will stir up Egyptian against Egyptian— <br/>   brother will fight against brother, <br/>   neighbor against neighbor, <br/>   city against city, <br/>   kingdom against kingdom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_3">  <sup>3</sup>The Egyptians will lose heart, <br/>   and I will bring their plans to nothing; <br/>  they will consult the idols and the spirits of the dead, <br/>   the mediums and the spiritists. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_4">  <sup>4</sup>I will hand the Egyptians over <br/>   to the power of a cruel master, <br/>  and a fierce king will rule over them,” <br/>   declares the Lord, the Lord Almighty. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_5">  <sup>5</sup>The waters of the river will dry up, <br/>   and the riverbed will be parched and dry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_6">  <sup>6</sup>The canals will stink; <br/>   the streams of Egypt will dwindle and dry up. <br/>  The reeds and rushes will wither, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_7">   <sup>7</sup>also the plants along the Nile, <br/>   at the mouth of the river. <br/>  Every sown field along the Nile <br/>   will become parched, will blow away and be no more. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_8">  <sup>8</sup>The fishermen will groan and lament, <br/>   all who cast hooks into the Nile; <br/>  those who throw nets on the water <br/>   will pine away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_9">  <sup>9</sup>Those who work with combed flax will despair, <br/>   the weavers of fine linen will lose hope. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_10">  <sup>10</sup>The workers in cloth will be dejected, <br/>   and all the wage earners will be sick at heart. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_11">  <sup>11</sup>The officials of Zoan are nothing but fools; <br/>   the wise counselors of Pharaoh give senseless advice. <br/>  How can you say to Pharaoh, <br/>   “I am one of the wise men, <br/>   a disciple of the ancient kings”? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_12">  <sup>12</sup>Where are your wise men now? <br/>   Let them show you and make known <br/>  what the Lord Almighty <br/>   has planned against Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_13">  <sup>13</sup>The officials of Zoan have become fools, <br/>   the leaders of Memphis are deceived; <br/>  the cornerstones of her peoples <br/>   have led Egypt astray. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_14">  <sup>14</sup>The Lord has poured into them <br/>   a spirit of dizziness; <br/>  they make Egypt stagger in all that she does, <br/>   as a drunkard staggers around in his vomit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_15">  <sup>15</sup>There is nothing Egypt can do— <br/>   head or tail, palm branch or reed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_16"> <sup>16</sup>In that day the Egyptians will become weaklings. They will shudder with fear at the uplifted hand that the Lord Almighty raises against them. </span>
<span class="verse es_19_17"><sup>17</sup>And the land of Judah will bring terror to the Egyptians; everyone to whom Judah is mentioned will be terrified, because of what the Lord Almighty is planning against them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_18"> <sup>18</sup>In that day five cities in Egypt will speak the language of Canaan and swear allegiance to the Lord Almighty. One of them will be called the City of the Sun.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts of the Masoretic Text, Dead Sea Scrolls, Symmachus and Vulgate; most manuscripts of the Masoretic Text City of Destruction">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_19"> <sup>19</sup>In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the heart of Egypt, and a monument to the Lord at its border. </span>
<span class="verse es_19_20"><sup>20</sup>It will be a sign and witness to the Lord Almighty in the land of Egypt. When they cry out to the Lord because of their oppressors, he will send them a savior and defender, and he will rescue them. </span>
<span class="verse es_19_21"><sup>21</sup>So the Lord will make himself known to the Egyptians, and in that day they will acknowledge the Lord. They will worship with sacrifices and grain offerings; they will make vows to the Lord and keep them. </span>
<span class="verse es_19_22"><sup>22</sup>The Lord will strike Egypt with a plague; he will strike them and heal them. They will turn to the Lord, and he will respond to their pleas and heal them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_19_23"> <sup>23</sup>In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria. The Assyrians will go to Egypt and the Egyptians to Assyria. The Egyptians and Assyrians will worship together. </span>
<span class="verse es_19_24"><sup>24</sup>In that day Israel will be the third, along with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Assyria, whose names will be used in blessings (see Gen. 48:20); or Assyria, who will be seen by others as blessed">⚓</a> on the earth. </span>
<span class="verse es_19_25"><sup>25</sup>The Lord Almighty will bless them, saying, “Blessed be Egypt my people, Assyria my handiwork, and Israel my inheritance.” <br/></span>
