---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>A Prophecy About Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>A prophecy against the Valley of Vision: <br/>  What troubles you now, <br/>   that you have all gone up on the roofs, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_2">  <sup>2</sup>you town so full of commotion, <br/>   you city of tumult and revelry? <br/>  Your slain were not killed by the sword, <br/>   nor did they die in battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_3">  <sup>3</sup>All your leaders have fled together; <br/>   they have been captured without using the bow. <br/>  All you who were caught were taken prisoner together, <br/>   having fled while the enemy was still far away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_4">  <sup>4</sup>Therefore I said, “Turn away from me; <br/>   let me weep bitterly. <br/>  Do not try to console me <br/>   over the destruction of my people.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_5">  <sup>5</sup>The Lord, the Lord Almighty, has a day <br/>   of tumult and trampling and terror <br/>   in the Valley of Vision, <br/>  a day of battering down walls <br/>   and of crying out to the mountains. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_6">  <sup>6</sup>Elam takes up the quiver, <br/>   with her charioteers and horses; <br/>   Kir uncovers the shield. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_7">  <sup>7</sup>Your choicest valleys are full of chariots, <br/>   and horsemen are posted at the city gates. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_8">  <sup>8</sup>The Lord stripped away the defenses of Judah, <br/>   and you looked in that day <br/>   to the weapons in the Palace of the Forest. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_9">  <sup>9</sup>You saw that the walls of the City of David <br/>   were broken through in many places; <br/>  you stored up water <br/>   in the Lower Pool. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_10">  <sup>10</sup>You counted the buildings in Jerusalem <br/>   and tore down houses to strengthen the wall. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_11">  <sup>11</sup>You built a reservoir between the two walls <br/>   for the water of the Old Pool, <br/>  but you did not look to the One who made it, <br/>   or have regard for the One who planned it long ago. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_12">  <sup>12</sup>The Lord, the Lord Almighty, <br/>   called you on that day <br/>  to weep and to wail, <br/>   to tear out your hair and put on sackcloth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_13">  <sup>13</sup>But see, there is joy and revelry, <br/>   slaughtering of cattle and killing of sheep, <br/>   eating of meat and drinking of wine! <br/>  “Let us eat and drink,” you say, <br/>   “for tomorrow we die!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Lord Almighty has revealed this in my hearing: “Till your dying day this sin will not be atoned for,” says the Lord, the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_15"> <sup>15</sup>This is what the Lord, the Lord Almighty, says: <br/>  “Go, say to this steward, <br/>   to Shebna the palace administrator: <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_16">  <sup>16</sup>What are you doing here and who gave you permission <br/>   to cut out a grave for yourself here, <br/>  hewing your grave on the height <br/>   and chiseling your resting place in the rock? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_17">  <sup>17</sup>“Beware, the Lord is about to take firm hold of you <br/>   and hurl you away, you mighty man. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_18">  <sup>18</sup>He will roll you up tightly like a ball <br/>   and throw you into a large country. <br/>  There you will die <br/>   and there the chariots you were so proud of <br/>   will become a disgrace to your master’s house. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_19">  <sup>19</sup>I will depose you from your office, <br/>   and you will be ousted from your position. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_20"> <sup>20</sup>“In that day I will summon my servant, Eliakim son of Hilkiah. </span>
<span class="verse es_22_21"><sup>21</sup>I will clothe him with your robe and fasten your sash around him and hand your authority over to him. He will be a father to those who live in Jerusalem and to the people of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse es_22_22"><sup>22</sup>I will place on his shoulder the key to the house of David; what he opens no one can shut, and what he shuts no one can open. </span>
<span class="verse es_22_23"><sup>23</sup>I will drive him like a peg into a firm place; he will become a seat<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or throne">⚓</a> of honor for the house of his father. </span>
<span class="verse es_22_24"><sup>24</sup>All the glory of his family will hang on him: its offspring and offshoots—all its lesser vessels, from the bowls to all the jars. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_22_25"> <sup>25</sup>“In that day,” declares the Lord Almighty, “the peg driven into the firm place will give way; it will be sheared off and will fall, and the load hanging on it will be cut down.” The Lord has spoken. <br/></span>
