---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1><h3>Praise to the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_25_1">  <sup>1</sup>Lord, you are my God; <br/>   I will exalt you and praise your name, <br/>  for in perfect faithfulness <br/>   you have done wonderful things, <br/>   things planned long ago. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_2">  <sup>2</sup>You have made the city a heap of rubble, <br/>   the fortified town a ruin, <br/>  the foreigners’ stronghold a city no more; <br/>   it will never be rebuilt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_3">  <sup>3</sup>Therefore strong peoples will honor you; <br/>   cities of ruthless nations will revere you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_4">  <sup>4</sup>You have been a refuge for the poor, <br/>   a refuge for the needy in their distress, <br/>  a shelter from the storm <br/>   and a shade from the heat. <br/>  For the breath of the ruthless <br/>   is like a storm driving against a wall <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_5">   <sup>5</sup>and like the heat of the desert. <br/>  You silence the uproar of foreigners; <br/>   as heat is reduced by the shadow of a cloud, <br/>   so the song of the ruthless is stilled. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_6">  <sup>6</sup>On this mountain the Lord Almighty will prepare <br/>   a feast of rich food for all peoples, <br/>  a banquet of aged wine— <br/>   the best of meats and the finest of wines. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_7">  <sup>7</sup>On this mountain he will destroy <br/>   the shroud that enfolds all peoples, <br/>  the sheet that covers all nations; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_8">   <sup>8</sup>he will swallow up death forever. <br/>  The Sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears <br/>   from all faces; <br/>  he will remove his people’s disgrace <br/>   from all the earth. <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">The Lord has spoken. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_9"> <sup>9</sup>In that day they will say, <br/>  “Surely this is our God; <br/>   we trusted in him, and he saved us. <br/>  This is the Lord, we trusted in him; <br/>   let us rejoice and be glad in his salvation.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_10">  <sup>10</sup>The hand of the Lord will rest on this mountain; <br/>   but Moab will be trampled in their land <br/>   as straw is trampled down in the manure. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_11">  <sup>11</sup>They will stretch out their hands in it, <br/>   as swimmers stretch out their hands to swim. <br/>  God will bring down their pride <br/>   despite the cleverness<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> of their hands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_25_12">  <sup>12</sup>He will bring down your high fortified walls <br/>   and lay them low; <br/>  he will bring them down to the ground, <br/>   to the very dust. <br/></span>
