---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\28.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>28</h1><h3>Woe to the Leaders of Ephraim and Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_28_1">  <sup>1</sup>Woe to that wreath, the pride of Ephraim’s drunkards, <br/>   to the fading flower, his glorious beauty, <br/>  set on the head of a fertile valley— <br/>   to that city, the pride of those laid low by wine! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_2">  <sup>2</sup>See, the Lord has one who is powerful and strong. <br/>   Like a hailstorm and a destructive wind, <br/>  like a driving rain and a flooding downpour, <br/>   he will throw it forcefully to the ground. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_3">  <sup>3</sup>That wreath, the pride of Ephraim’s drunkards, <br/>   will be trampled underfoot. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_4">  <sup>4</sup>That fading flower, his glorious beauty, <br/>   set on the head of a fertile valley, <br/>  will be like figs ripe before harvest— <br/>   as soon as people see them and take them in hand, <br/>   they swallow them. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_5">  <sup>5</sup>In that day the Lord Almighty <br/>   will be a glorious crown, <br/>  a beautiful wreath <br/>   for the remnant of his people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_6">  <sup>6</sup>He will be a spirit of justice <br/>   to the one who sits in judgment, <br/>  a source of strength <br/>   to those who turn back the battle at the gate. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_7">  <sup>7</sup>And these also stagger from wine <br/>   and reel from beer: <br/>  Priests and prophets stagger from beer <br/>   and are befuddled with wine; <br/>  they reel from beer, <br/>   they stagger when seeing visions, <br/>   they stumble when rendering decisions. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_8">  <sup>8</sup>All the tables are covered with vomit <br/>   and there is not a spot without filth. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_9">  <sup>9</sup>“Who is it he is trying to teach? <br/>   To whom is he explaining his message? <br/>  To children weaned from their milk, <br/>   to those just taken from the breast? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_10">  <sup>10</sup>For it is: <br/>   Do this, do that, <br/>   a rule for this, a rule for that<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew / sav lasav sav lasav / kav lakav kav lakav (probably meaningless sounds mimicking the prophet’s words); also in verse 13">⚓</a> ; <br/>   a little here, a little there.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_11">  <sup>11</sup>Very well then, with foreign lips and strange tongues <br/>   God will speak to this people, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_12">  <sup>12</sup>to whom he said, <br/>   “This is the resting place, let the weary rest”; <br/>  and, “This is the place of repose”— <br/>   but they would not listen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_13">  <sup>13</sup>So then, the word of the Lord to them will become: <br/>   Do this, do that, <br/>   a rule for this, a rule for that; <br/>   a little here, a little there— <br/>  so that as they go they will fall backward; <br/>   they will be injured and snared and captured. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_14">  <sup>14</sup>Therefore hear the word of the Lord, you scoffers <br/>   who rule this people in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_15">  <sup>15</sup>You boast, “We have entered into a covenant with death, <br/>   with the realm of the dead we have made an agreement. <br/>  When an overwhelming scourge sweeps by, <br/>   it cannot touch us, <br/>  for we have made a lie our refuge <br/>   and falsehood<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or false gods">⚓</a> our hiding place.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_16"> <sup>16</sup>So this is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “See, I lay a stone in Zion, a tested stone, <br/>   a precious cornerstone for a sure foundation; <br/>  the one who relies on it <br/>   will never be stricken with panic. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_17">  <sup>17</sup>I will make justice the measuring line <br/>   and righteousness the plumb line; <br/>  hail will sweep away your refuge, the lie, <br/>   and water will overflow your hiding place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_18">  <sup>18</sup>Your covenant with death will be annulled; <br/>   your agreement with the realm of the dead will not stand. <br/>  When the overwhelming scourge sweeps by, <br/>   you will be beaten down by it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_19">  <sup>19</sup>As often as it comes it will carry you away; <br/>   morning after morning, by day and by night, <br/>   it will sweep through.” <br/><br/>  The understanding of this message <br/>   will bring sheer terror. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_20">  <sup>20</sup>The bed is too short to stretch out on, <br/>   the blanket too narrow to wrap around you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_21">  <sup>21</sup>The Lord will rise up as he did at Mount Perazim, <br/>   he will rouse himself as in the Valley of Gibeon— <br/>  to do his work, his strange work, <br/>   and perform his task, his alien task. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_22">  <sup>22</sup>Now stop your mocking, <br/>   or your chains will become heavier; <br/>  the Lord, the Lord Almighty, has told me <br/>   of the destruction decreed against the whole land. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_23">  <sup>23</sup>Listen and hear my voice; <br/>   pay attention and hear what I say. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_24">  <sup>24</sup>When a farmer plows for planting, does he plow continually? <br/>   Does he keep on breaking up and working the soil? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_25">  <sup>25</sup>When he has leveled the surface, <br/>   does he not sow caraway and scatter cumin? <br/>  Does he not plant wheat in its place,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a><br/>   barley in its plot,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a><br/>   and spelt in its field? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_26">  <sup>26</sup>His God instructs him <br/>   and teaches him the right way. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_27">  <sup>27</sup>Caraway is not threshed with a sledge, <br/>   nor is the wheel of a cart rolled over cumin; <br/>  caraway is beaten out with a rod, <br/>   and cumin with a stick. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_28">  <sup>28</sup>Grain must be ground to make bread; <br/>   so one does not go on threshing it forever. <br/>  The wheels of a threshing cart may be rolled over it, <br/>   but one does not use horses to grind grain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_28_29">  <sup>29</sup>All this also comes from the Lord Almighty, <br/>   whose plan is wonderful, <br/>   whose wisdom is magnificent. <br/></span>
