---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\29.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>29</h1><h3>Woe to David’s City </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_29_1">  <sup>1</sup>Woe to you, Ariel, Ariel, <br/>   the city where David settled! <br/>  Add year to year <br/>   and let your cycle of festivals go on. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_2">  <sup>2</sup>Yet I will besiege Ariel; <br/>   she will mourn and lament, <br/>   she will be to me like an altar hearth.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for altar hearth sounds like the Hebrew for Ariel.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_3">  <sup>3</sup>I will encamp against you on all sides; <br/>   I will encircle you with towers <br/>   and set up my siege works against you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_4">  <sup>4</sup>Brought low, you will speak from the ground; <br/>   your speech will mumble out of the dust. <br/>  Your voice will come ghostlike from the earth; <br/>   out of the dust your speech will whisper. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_5">  <sup>5</sup>But your many enemies will become like fine dust, <br/>   the ruthless hordes like blown chaff. <br/>  Suddenly, in an instant, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_6">   <sup>6</sup>the Lord Almighty will come <br/>  with thunder and earthquake and great noise, <br/>   with windstorm and tempest and flames of a devouring fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_7">  <sup>7</sup>Then the hordes of all the nations that fight against Ariel, <br/>   that attack her and her fortress and besiege her, <br/>  will be as it is with a dream, <br/>   with a vision in the night— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_8">  <sup>8</sup>as when a hungry person dreams of eating, <br/>   but awakens hungry still; <br/>  as when a thirsty person dreams of drinking, <br/>   but awakens faint and thirsty still. <br/>  So will it be with the hordes of all the nations <br/>   that fight against Mount Zion. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_9">  <sup>9</sup>Be stunned and amazed, <br/>   blind yourselves and be sightless; <br/>  be drunk, but not from wine, <br/>   stagger, but not from beer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_10">  <sup>10</sup>The Lord has brought over you a deep sleep: <br/>   He has sealed your eyes (the prophets); <br/>   he has covered your heads (the seers). <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_11"> <sup>11</sup>For you this whole vision is nothing but words sealed in a scroll. And if you give the scroll to someone who can read, and say, “Read this, please,” they will answer, “I can’t; it is sealed.” </span>
<span class="verse es_29_12"><sup>12</sup>Or if you give the scroll to someone who cannot read, and say, “Read this, please,” they will answer, “I don’t know how to read.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_13"> <sup>13</sup>The Lord says: <br/>  “These people come near to me with their mouth <br/>   and honor me with their lips, <br/>   but their hearts are far from me. <br/>  Their worship of me <br/>   is based on merely human rules they have been taught.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint They worship me in vain; / their teachings are merely human rules">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_14">  <sup>14</sup>Therefore once more I will astound these people <br/>   with wonder upon wonder; <br/>  the wisdom of the wise will perish, <br/>   the intelligence of the intelligent will vanish.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_15">  <sup>15</sup>Woe to those who go to great depths <br/>   to hide their plans from the Lord, <br/>  who do their work in darkness and think, <br/>   “Who sees us? Who will know?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_16">  <sup>16</sup>You turn things upside down, <br/>   as if the potter were thought to be like the clay! <br/>  Shall what is formed say to the one who formed it, <br/>   “You did not make me”? <br/>  Can the pot say to the potter, <br/>   “You know nothing”? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_17">  <sup>17</sup>In a very short time, will not Lebanon be turned into a fertile field <br/>   and the fertile field seem like a forest? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_18">  <sup>18</sup>In that day the deaf will hear the words of the scroll, <br/>   and out of gloom and darkness <br/>   the eyes of the blind will see. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_19">  <sup>19</sup>Once more the humble will rejoice in the Lord; <br/>   the needy will rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_20">  <sup>20</sup>The ruthless will vanish, <br/>   the mockers will disappear, <br/>   and all who have an eye for evil will be cut down— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_21">  <sup>21</sup>those who with a word make someone out to be guilty, <br/>   who ensnare the defender in court <br/>   and with false testimony deprive the innocent of justice. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_22"> <sup>22</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord, who redeemed Abraham, says to the descendants of Jacob: <br/>  “No longer will Jacob be ashamed; <br/>   no longer will their faces grow pale. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_23">  <sup>23</sup>When they see among them their children, <br/>   the work of my hands, <br/>  they will keep my name holy; <br/>   they will acknowledge the holiness of the Holy One of Jacob, <br/>   and will stand in awe of the God of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_29_24">  <sup>24</sup>Those who are wayward in spirit will gain understanding; <br/>   those who complain will accept instruction.” <br/></span>
