---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\30.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1><h3>Woe to the Obstinate Nation </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_30_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Woe to the obstinate children,” <br/>   declares the Lord, <br/>  “to those who carry out plans that are not mine, <br/>   forming an alliance, but not by my Spirit, <br/>   heaping sin upon sin; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_2">  <sup>2</sup>who go down to Egypt <br/>   without consulting me; <br/>  who look for help to Pharaoh’s protection, <br/>   to Egypt’s shade for refuge. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_3">  <sup>3</sup>But Pharaoh’s protection will be to your shame, <br/>   Egypt’s shade will bring you disgrace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_4">  <sup>4</sup>Though they have officials in Zoan <br/>   and their envoys have arrived in Hanes, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_5">  <sup>5</sup>everyone will be put to shame <br/>   because of a people useless to them, <br/>  who bring neither help nor advantage, <br/>   but only shame and disgrace.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_6"> <sup>6</sup>A prophecy concerning the animals of the Negev: <br/>  Through a land of hardship and distress, <br/>   of lions and lionesses, <br/>   of adders and darting snakes, <br/>  the envoys carry their riches on donkeys’ backs, <br/>   their treasures on the humps of camels, <br/>  to that unprofitable nation, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_7">   <sup>7</sup>to Egypt, whose help is utterly useless. <br/>  Therefore I call her <br/>   Rahab the Do-Nothing. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_8">  <sup>8</sup>Go now, write it on a tablet for them, <br/>   inscribe it on a scroll, <br/>  that for the days to come <br/>   it may be an everlasting witness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_9">  <sup>9</sup>For these are rebellious people, deceitful children, <br/>   children unwilling to listen to the Lord’s instruction. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_10">  <sup>10</sup>They say to the seers, <br/>   “See no more visions!” <br/>  and to the prophets, <br/>   “Give us no more visions of what is right! <br/>  Tell us pleasant things, <br/>   prophesy illusions. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_11">  <sup>11</sup>Leave this way, <br/>   get off this path, <br/>  and stop confronting us <br/>   with the Holy One of Israel!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_12"> <sup>12</sup>Therefore this is what the Holy One of Israel says: <br/>  “Because you have rejected this message, <br/>   relied on oppression <br/>   and depended on deceit, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_13">  <sup>13</sup>this sin will become for you <br/>   like a high wall, cracked and bulging, <br/>   that collapses suddenly, in an instant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_14">  <sup>14</sup>It will break in pieces like pottery, <br/>   shattered so mercilessly <br/>  that among its pieces not a fragment will be found <br/>   for taking coals from a hearth <br/>   or scooping water out of a cistern.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_15"> <sup>15</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord, the Holy One of Israel, says: <br/>  “In repentance and rest is your salvation, <br/>   in quietness and trust is your strength, <br/>   but you would have none of it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_16">  <sup>16</sup>You said, ‘No, we will flee on horses.’ <br/>   Therefore you will flee! <br/>  You said, ‘We will ride off on swift horses.’ <br/>   Therefore your pursuers will be swift! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_17">  <sup>17</sup>A thousand will flee <br/>   at the threat of one; <br/>  at the threat of five <br/>   you will all flee away, <br/>  till you are left <br/>   like a flagstaff on a mountaintop, <br/>   like a banner on a hill.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_18">  <sup>18</sup>Yet the Lord longs to be gracious to you; <br/>   therefore he will rise up to show you compassion. <br/>  For the Lord is a God of justice. <br/>   Blessed are all who wait for him! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_19"> <sup>19</sup>People of Zion, who live in Jerusalem, you will weep no more. How gracious he will be when you cry for help! As soon as he hears, he will answer you. </span>
<span class="verse es_30_20"><sup>20</sup>Although the Lord gives you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, your teachers will be hidden no more; with your own eyes you will see them. </span>
<span class="verse es_30_21"><sup>21</sup>Whether you turn to the right or to the left, your ears will hear a voice behind you, saying, “This is the way; walk in it.” </span>
<span class="verse es_30_22"><sup>22</sup>Then you will desecrate your idols overlaid with silver and your images covered with gold; you will throw them away like a menstrual cloth and say to them, “Away with you!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_23"> <sup>23</sup>He will also send you rain for the seed you sow in the ground, and the food that comes from the land will be rich and plentiful. In that day your cattle will graze in broad meadows. </span>
<span class="verse es_30_24"><sup>24</sup>The oxen and donkeys that work the soil will eat fodder and mash, spread out with fork and shovel. </span>
<span class="verse es_30_25"><sup>25</sup>In the day of great slaughter, when the towers fall, streams of water will flow on every high mountain and every lofty hill. </span>
<span class="verse es_30_26"><sup>26</sup>The moon will shine like the sun, and the sunlight will be seven times brighter, like the light of seven full days, when the Lord binds up the bruises of his people and heals the wounds he inflicted. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_27">  <sup>27</sup>See, the Name of the Lord comes from afar, <br/>   with burning anger and dense clouds of smoke; <br/>  his lips are full of wrath, <br/>   and his tongue is a consuming fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_28">  <sup>28</sup>His breath is like a rushing torrent, <br/>   rising up to the neck. <br/>  He shakes the nations in the sieve of destruction; <br/>   he places in the jaws of the peoples <br/>   a bit that leads them astray. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_29">  <sup>29</sup>And you will sing <br/>   as on the night you celebrate a holy festival; <br/>  your hearts will rejoice <br/>   as when people playing pipes go up <br/>  to the mountain of the Lord, <br/>   to the Rock of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_30">  <sup>30</sup>The Lord will cause people to hear his majestic voice <br/>   and will make them see his arm coming down <br/>  with raging anger and consuming fire, <br/>   with cloudburst, thunderstorm and hail. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_31">  <sup>31</sup>The voice of the Lord will shatter Assyria; <br/>   with his rod he will strike them down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_32">  <sup>32</sup>Every stroke the Lord lays on them <br/>   with his punishing club <br/>  will be to the music of timbrels and harps, <br/>   as he fights them in battle with the blows of his arm. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_30_33">  <sup>33</sup>Topheth has long been prepared; <br/>   it has been made ready for the king. <br/>  Its fire pit has been made deep and wide, <br/>   with an abundance of fire and wood; <br/>  the breath of the Lord, <br/>   like a stream of burning sulfur, <br/>   sets it ablaze. <br/></span>
