---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\31.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>31</h1><h3>Woe to Those Who Rely on Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_31_1">  <sup>1</sup>Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help, <br/>   who rely on horses, <br/>  who trust in the multitude of their chariots <br/>   and in the great strength of their horsemen, <br/>  but do not look to the Holy One of Israel, <br/>   or seek help from the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_31_2">  <sup>2</sup>Yet he too is wise and can bring disaster; <br/>   he does not take back his words. <br/>  He will rise up against that wicked nation, <br/>   against those who help evildoers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_31_3">  <sup>3</sup>But the Egyptians are mere mortals and not God; <br/>   their horses are flesh and not spirit. <br/>  When the Lord stretches out his hand, <br/>   those who help will stumble, <br/>   those who are helped will fall; <br/>   all will perish together. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_31_4"> <sup>4</sup>This is what the Lord says to me: <br/>  “As a lion growls, <br/>   a great lion over its prey— <br/>  and though a whole band of shepherds <br/>   is called together against it, <br/>  it is not frightened by their shouts <br/>   or disturbed by their clamor— <br/>  so the Lord Almighty will come down <br/>   to do battle on Mount Zion and on its heights. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_31_5">  <sup>5</sup>Like birds hovering overhead, <br/>   the Lord Almighty will shield Jerusalem; <br/>  he will shield it and deliver it, <br/>   he will ‘pass over’ it and will rescue it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_31_6"> <sup>6</sup>Return, you Israelites, to the One you have so greatly revolted against. </span>
<span class="verse es_31_7"><sup>7</sup>For in that day every one of you will reject the idols of silver and gold your sinful hands have made. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_31_8">  <sup>8</sup>“Assyria will fall by no human sword; <br/>   a sword, not of mortals, will devour them. <br/>  They will flee before the sword <br/>   and their young men will be put to forced labor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_31_9">  <sup>9</sup>Their stronghold will fall because of terror; <br/>   at the sight of the battle standard their commanders will panic,” <br/>  declares the Lord, <br/>   whose fire is in Zion, <br/>   whose furnace is in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
