---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\32.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>32</h1><h3>The Kingdom of Righteousness </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_32_1">  <sup>1</sup>See, a king will reign in righteousness <br/>   and rulers will rule with justice. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_2">  <sup>2</sup>Each one will be like a shelter from the wind <br/>   and a refuge from the storm, <br/>  like streams of water in the desert <br/>   and the shadow of a great rock in a thirsty land. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_3">  <sup>3</sup>Then the eyes of those who see will no longer be closed, <br/>   and the ears of those who hear will listen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_4">  <sup>4</sup>The fearful heart will know and understand, <br/>   and the stammering tongue will be fluent and clear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_5">  <sup>5</sup>No longer will the fool be called noble <br/>   nor the scoundrel be highly respected. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_6">  <sup>6</sup>For fools speak folly, <br/>   their hearts are bent on evil: <br/>  They practice ungodliness <br/>   and spread error concerning the Lord; <br/>  the hungry they leave empty <br/>   and from the thirsty they withhold water. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_7">  <sup>7</sup>Scoundrels use wicked methods, <br/>   they make up evil schemes <br/>  to destroy the poor with lies, <br/>   even when the plea of the needy is just. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_8">  <sup>8</sup>But the noble make noble plans, <br/>   and by noble deeds they stand. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Women of Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_32_9">  <sup>9</sup>You women who are so complacent, <br/>   rise up and listen to me; <br/>  you daughters who feel secure, <br/>   hear what I have to say! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_10">  <sup>10</sup>In little more than a year <br/>   you who feel secure will tremble; <br/>  the grape harvest will fail, <br/>   and the harvest of fruit will not come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_11">  <sup>11</sup>Tremble, you complacent women; <br/>   shudder, you daughters who feel secure! <br/>  Strip off your fine clothes <br/>   and wrap yourselves in rags. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_12">  <sup>12</sup>Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields, <br/>   for the fruitful vines <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_13">  <sup>13</sup>and for the land of my people, <br/>   a land overgrown with thorns and briers— <br/>  yes, mourn for all houses of merriment <br/>   and for this city of revelry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_14">  <sup>14</sup>The fortress will be abandoned, <br/>   the noisy city deserted; <br/>  citadel and watchtower will become a wasteland forever, <br/>   the delight of donkeys, a pasture for flocks, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_15">  <sup>15</sup>till the Spirit is poured on us from on high, <br/>   and the desert becomes a fertile field, <br/>   and the fertile field seems like a forest. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_16">  <sup>16</sup>The Lord’s justice will dwell in the desert, <br/>   his righteousness live in the fertile field. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_17">  <sup>17</sup>The fruit of that righteousness will be peace; <br/>   its effect will be quietness and confidence forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_18">  <sup>18</sup>My people will live in peaceful dwelling places, <br/>   in secure homes, <br/>   in undisturbed places of rest. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_19">  <sup>19</sup>Though hail flattens the forest <br/>   and the city is leveled completely, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_32_20">  <sup>20</sup>how blessed you will be, <br/>   sowing your seed by every stream, <br/>   and letting your cattle and donkeys range free. <br/></span>
