---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\33.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>33</h1><h3>Distress and Help </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_33_1">  <sup>1</sup>Woe to you, destroyer, <br/>   you who have not been destroyed! <br/>  Woe to you, betrayer, <br/>   you who have not been betrayed! <br/>  When you stop destroying, <br/>   you will be destroyed; <br/>  when you stop betraying, <br/>   you will be betrayed. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_2">  <sup>2</sup>Lord, be gracious to us; <br/>   we long for you. <br/>  Be our strength every morning, <br/>   our salvation in time of distress. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_3">  <sup>3</sup>At the uproar of your army, the peoples flee; <br/>   when you rise up, the nations scatter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_4">  <sup>4</sup>Your plunder, O nations, is harvested as by young locusts; <br/>   like a swarm of locusts people pounce on it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_5">  <sup>5</sup>The Lord is exalted, for he dwells on high; <br/>   he will fill Zion with his justice and righteousness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_6">  <sup>6</sup>He will be the sure foundation for your times, <br/>   a rich store of salvation and wisdom and knowledge; <br/>   the fear of the Lord is the key to this treasure.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or is a treasure from him">⚓</a><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_7">  <sup>7</sup>Look, their brave men cry aloud in the streets; <br/>   the envoys of peace weep bitterly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_8">  <sup>8</sup>The highways are deserted, <br/>   no travelers are on the roads. <br/>  The treaty is broken, <br/>   its witnesses<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls; Masoretic Text / the cities">⚓</a> are despised, <br/>   no one is respected. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_9">  <sup>9</sup>The land dries up and wastes away, <br/>   Lebanon is ashamed and withers; <br/>  Sharon is like the Arabah, <br/>   and Bashan and Carmel drop their leaves. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_10">  <sup>10</sup>“Now will I arise,” says the Lord. <br/>   “Now will I be exalted; <br/>   now will I be lifted up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_11">  <sup>11</sup>You conceive chaff, <br/>   you give birth to straw; <br/>   your breath is a fire that consumes you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_12">  <sup>12</sup>The peoples will be burned to ashes; <br/>   like cut thornbushes they will be set ablaze.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_13">  <sup>13</sup>You who are far away, hear what I have done; <br/>   you who are near, acknowledge my power! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_14">  <sup>14</sup>The sinners in Zion are terrified; <br/>   trembling grips the godless: <br/>  “Who of us can dwell with the consuming fire? <br/>   Who of us can dwell with everlasting burning?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_15">  <sup>15</sup>Those who walk righteously <br/>   and speak what is right, <br/>  who reject gain from extortion <br/>   and keep their hands from accepting bribes, <br/>  who stop their ears against plots of murder <br/>   and shut their eyes against contemplating evil— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_16">  <sup>16</sup>they are the ones who will dwell on the heights, <br/>   whose refuge will be the mountain fortress. <br/>  Their bread will be supplied, <br/>   and water will not fail them. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_17">  <sup>17</sup>Your eyes will see the king in his beauty <br/>   and view a land that stretches afar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_18">  <sup>18</sup>In your thoughts you will ponder the former terror: <br/>   “Where is that chief officer? <br/>  Where is the one who took the revenue? <br/>   Where is the officer in charge of the towers?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_19">  <sup>19</sup>You will see those arrogant people no more, <br/>   people whose speech is obscure, <br/>   whose language is strange and incomprehensible. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_20">  <sup>20</sup>Look on Zion, the city of our festivals; <br/>   your eyes will see Jerusalem, <br/>   a peaceful abode, a tent that will not be moved; <br/>  its stakes will never be pulled up, <br/>   nor any of its ropes broken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_21">  <sup>21</sup>There the Lord will be our Mighty One. <br/>   It will be like a place of broad rivers and streams. <br/>  No galley with oars will ride them, <br/>   no mighty ship will sail them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_22">  <sup>22</sup>For the Lord is our judge, <br/>   the Lord is our lawgiver, <br/>  the Lord is our king; <br/>   it is he who will save us. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_23">  <sup>23</sup>Your rigging hangs loose: <br/>   The mast is not held secure, <br/>   the sail is not spread. <br/>  Then an abundance of spoils will be divided <br/>   and even the lame will carry off plunder. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_33_24">  <sup>24</sup>No one living in Zion will say, “I am ill”; <br/>   and the sins of those who dwell there will be forgiven. <br/></span>
