---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\35.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>35</h1><h3>Joy of the Redeemed </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_35_1">  <sup>1</sup>The desert and the parched land will be glad; <br/>   the wilderness will rejoice and blossom. <br/>  Like the crocus, </span>
<span class="verse es_35_2">  <sup>2</sup>it will burst into bloom; <br/>   it will rejoice greatly and shout for joy. <br/>  The glory of Lebanon will be given to it, <br/>   the splendor of Carmel and Sharon; <br/>  they will see the glory of the Lord, <br/>   the splendor of our God. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_35_3">  <sup>3</sup>Strengthen the feeble hands, <br/>   steady the knees that give way; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_35_4">  <sup>4</sup>say to those with fearful hearts, <br/>   “Be strong, do not fear; <br/>  your God will come, <br/>   he will come with vengeance; <br/>  with divine retribution <br/>   he will come to save you.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_35_5">  <sup>5</sup>Then will the eyes of the blind be opened <br/>   and the ears of the deaf unstopped. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_35_6">  <sup>6</sup>Then will the lame leap like a deer, <br/>   and the mute tongue shout for joy. <br/>  Water will gush forth in the wilderness <br/>   and streams in the desert. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_35_7">  <sup>7</sup>The burning sand will become a pool, <br/>   the thirsty ground bubbling springs. <br/>  In the haunts where jackals once lay, <br/>   grass and reeds and papyrus will grow. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_35_8">  <sup>8</sup>And a highway will be there; <br/>   it will be called the Way of Holiness; <br/>   it will be for those who walk on that Way. <br/>  The unclean will not journey on it; <br/>   wicked fools will not go about on it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_35_9">  <sup>9</sup>No lion will be there, <br/>   nor any ravenous beast; <br/>   they will not be found there. <br/>  But only the redeemed will walk there, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_35_10">   <sup>10</sup>and those the Lord has rescued will return. <br/>  They will enter Zion with singing; <br/>   everlasting joy will crown their heads. <br/>  Gladness and joy will overtake them, <br/>   and sorrow and sighing will flee away. <br/></span>
