---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\37.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>37</h1><h3>Jerusalem’s Deliverance Foretold </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_37_1"> <sup>1</sup>When King Hezekiah heard this, he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and went into the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse es_37_2"><sup>2</sup>He sent Eliakim the palace administrator, Shebna the secretary, and the leading priests, all wearing sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz. </span>
<span class="verse es_37_3"><sup>3</sup>They told him, “This is what Hezekiah says: This day is a day of distress and rebuke and disgrace, as when children come to the moment of birth and there is no strength to deliver them. </span>
<span class="verse es_37_4"><sup>4</sup>It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the field commander, whom his master, the king of Assyria, has sent to ridicule the living God, and that he will rebuke him for the words the Lord your God has heard. Therefore pray for the remnant that still survives.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_5"> <sup>5</sup>When King Hezekiah’s officials came to Isaiah, </span>
<span class="verse es_37_6"><sup>6</sup>Isaiah said to them, “Tell your master, ‘This is what the Lord says: Do not be afraid of what you have heard—those words with which the underlings of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me. </span>
<span class="verse es_37_7"><sup>7</sup>Listen! When he hears a certain report, I will make him want to return to his own country, and there I will have him cut down with the sword.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_8"> <sup>8</sup>When the field commander heard that the king of Assyria had left Lachish, he withdrew and found the king fighting against Libnah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_9"> <sup>9</sup>Now Sennacherib received a report that Tirhakah, the king of Cush,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the upper Nile region">⚓</a> was marching out to fight against him. When he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah with this word: </span>
<span class="verse es_37_10"><sup>10</sup>“Say to Hezekiah king of Judah: Do not let the god you depend on deceive you when he says, ‘Jerusalem will not be given into the hands of the king of Assyria.’ </span>
<span class="verse es_37_11"><sup>11</sup>Surely you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the countries, destroying them completely. And will you be delivered? </span>
<span class="verse es_37_12"><sup>12</sup>Did the gods of the nations that were destroyed by my predecessors deliver them—the gods of Gozan, Harran, Rezeph and the people of Eden who were in Tel Assar? </span>
<span class="verse es_37_13"><sup>13</sup>Where is the king of Hamath or the king of Arpad? Where are the kings of Lair, Sepharvaim, Hena and Ivvah?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Hezekiah’s Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_37_14"> <sup>14</sup>Hezekiah received the letter from the messengers and read it. Then he went up to the temple of the Lord and spread it out before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse es_37_15"><sup>15</sup>And Hezekiah prayed to the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse es_37_16"><sup>16</sup>“Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, enthroned between the cherubim, you alone are God over all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. </span>
<span class="verse es_37_17"><sup>17</sup>Give ear, Lord, and hear; open your eyes, Lord, and see; listen to all the words Sennacherib has sent to ridicule the living God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_18"> <sup>18</sup>“It is true, Lord, that the Assyrian kings have laid waste all these peoples and their lands. </span>
<span class="verse es_37_19"><sup>19</sup>They have thrown their gods into the fire and destroyed them, for they were not gods but only wood and stone, fashioned by human hands. </span>
<span class="verse es_37_20"><sup>20</sup>Now, Lord our God, deliver us from his hand, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you, Lord, are the only God.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls (see also 2 Kings 19:19); Masoretic Text you alone are the Lord">⚓</a> ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Sennacherib’s Fall </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_37_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then Isaiah son of Amoz sent a message to Hezekiah: “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: Because you have prayed to me concerning Sennacherib king of Assyria, </span>
<span class="verse es_37_22"><sup>22</sup>this is the word the Lord has spoken against him: <br/>  “Virgin Daughter Zion <br/>   despises and mocks you. <br/>  Daughter Jerusalem <br/>   tosses her head as you flee. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_23">  <sup>23</sup>Who is it you have ridiculed and blasphemed? <br/>   Against whom have you raised your voice <br/>  and lifted your eyes in pride? <br/>   Against the Holy One of Israel! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_24">  <sup>24</sup>By your messengers <br/>   you have ridiculed the Lord. <br/>  And you have said, <br/>   ‘With my many chariots <br/>  I have ascended the heights of the mountains, <br/>   the utmost heights of Lebanon. <br/>  I have cut down its tallest cedars, <br/>   the choicest of its junipers. <br/>  I have reached its remotest heights, <br/>   the finest of its forests. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_25">  <sup>25</sup>I have dug wells in foreign lands<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls (see also 2 Kings 19:24); Masoretic Text does not have in foreign lands.">⚓</a><br/>   and drunk the water there. <br/>  With the soles of my feet <br/>   I have dried up all the streams of Egypt.’ <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_26">  <sup>26</sup>“Have you not heard? <br/>   Long ago I ordained it. <br/>  In days of old I planned it; <br/>   now I have brought it to pass, <br/>  that you have turned fortified cities <br/>   into piles of stone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_27">  <sup>27</sup>Their people, drained of power, <br/>   are dismayed and put to shame. <br/>  They are like plants in the field, <br/>   like tender green shoots, <br/>  like grass sprouting on the roof, <br/>   scorched<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts of the Masoretic Text, Dead Sea Scrolls and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 2 Kings 19:26); most manuscripts of the Masoretic Text roof / and terraced fields">⚓</a> before it grows up. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_28">  <sup>28</sup>“But I know where you are <br/>   and when you come and go <br/>   and how you rage against me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_29">  <sup>29</sup>Because you rage against me <br/>   and because your insolence has reached my ears, <br/>  I will put my hook in your nose <br/>   and my bit in your mouth, <br/>  and I will make you return <br/>   by the way you came. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_30"> <sup>30</sup>“This will be the sign for you, Hezekiah: <br/>  “This year you will eat what grows by itself, <br/>   and the second year what springs from that. <br/>  But in the third year sow and reap, <br/>   plant vineyards and eat their fruit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_31">  <sup>31</sup>Once more a remnant of the kingdom of Judah <br/>   will take root below and bear fruit above. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_32">  <sup>32</sup>For out of Jerusalem will come a remnant, <br/>   and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. <br/>  The zeal of the Lord Almighty <br/>   will accomplish this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_33"> <sup>33</sup>“Therefore this is what the Lord says concerning the king of Assyria: <br/>  “He will not enter this city <br/>   or shoot an arrow here. <br/>  He will not come before it with shield <br/>   or build a siege ramp against it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_34">  <sup>34</sup>By the way that he came he will return; <br/>   he will not enter this city,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_35">  <sup>35</sup>“I will defend this city and save it, <br/>   for my sake and for the sake of David my servant!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_36"> <sup>36</sup>Then the angel of the Lord went out and put to death a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the Assyrian camp. When the people got up the next morning—there were all the dead bodies! </span>
<span class="verse es_37_37"><sup>37</sup>So Sennacherib king of Assyria broke camp and withdrew. He returned to Nineveh and stayed there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_37_38"> <sup>38</sup>One day, while he was worshiping in the temple of his god Nisrok, his sons Adrammelek and Sharezer killed him with the sword, and they escaped to the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
