---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\38.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>38</h1><h3>Hezekiah’s Illness </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_38_1"> <sup>1</sup>In those days Hezekiah became ill and was at the point of death. The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz went to him and said, “This is what the Lord says: Put your house in order, because you are going to die; you will not recover.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_2"> <sup>2</sup>Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse es_38_3"><sup>3</sup>“Remember, Lord, how I have walked before you faithfully and with wholehearted devotion and have done what is good in your eyes.” And Hezekiah wept bitterly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to Isaiah: </span>
<span class="verse es_38_5"><sup>5</sup>“Go and tell Hezekiah, ‘This is what the Lord, the God of your father David, says: I have heard your prayer and seen your tears; I will add fifteen years to your life. </span>
<span class="verse es_38_6"><sup>6</sup>And I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria. I will defend this city. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘This is the Lord’s sign to you that the Lord will do what he has promised: </span>
<span class="verse es_38_8"><sup>8</sup>I will make the shadow cast by the sun go back the ten steps it has gone down on the stairway of Ahaz.’ ” So the sunlight went back the ten steps it had gone down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_9"> <sup>9</sup>A writing of Hezekiah king of Judah after his illness and recovery: <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_10">  <sup>10</sup>I said, “In the prime of my life <br/>   must I go through the gates of death <br/>   and be robbed of the rest of my years?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_11">  <sup>11</sup>I said, “I will not again see the Lord himself <br/>   in the land of the living; <br/>  no longer will I look on my fellow man, <br/>   or be with those who now dwell in this world. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_12">  <sup>12</sup>Like a shepherd’s tent my house <br/>   has been pulled down and taken from me. <br/>  Like a weaver I have rolled up my life, <br/>   and he has cut me off from the loom; <br/>   day and night you made an end of me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_13">  <sup>13</sup>I waited patiently till dawn, <br/>   but like a lion he broke all my bones; <br/>   day and night you made an end of me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_14">  <sup>14</sup>I cried like a swift or thrush, <br/>   I moaned like a mourning dove. <br/>  My eyes grew weak as I looked to the heavens. <br/>   I am being threatened; Lord, come to my aid!” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_15">  <sup>15</sup>But what can I say? <br/>   He has spoken to me, and he himself has done this. <br/>  I will walk humbly all my years <br/>   because of this anguish of my soul. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_16">  <sup>16</sup>Lord, by such things people live; <br/>   and my spirit finds life in them too. <br/>  You restored me to health <br/>   and let me live. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_17">  <sup>17</sup>Surely it was for my benefit <br/>   that I suffered such anguish. <br/>  In your love you kept me <br/>   from the pit of destruction; <br/>  you have put all my sins <br/>   behind your back. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_18">  <sup>18</sup>For the grave cannot praise you, <br/>   death cannot sing your praise; <br/>  those who go down to the pit <br/>   cannot hope for your faithfulness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_19">  <sup>19</sup>The living, the living—they praise you, <br/>   as I am doing today; <br/>  parents tell their children <br/>   about your faithfulness. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_20">  <sup>20</sup>The Lord will save me, <br/>   and we will sing with stringed instruments <br/>  all the days of our lives <br/>   in the temple of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_21"> <sup>21</sup>Isaiah had said, “Prepare a poultice of figs and apply it to the boil, and he will recover.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_38_22"> <sup>22</sup>Hezekiah had asked, “What will be the sign that I will go up to the temple of the Lord?” <br/></span>
