---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\39.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>39</h1><h3>Envoys From Babylon </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_39_1"> <sup>1</sup>At that time Marduk-Baladan son of Baladan king of Babylon sent Hezekiah letters and a gift, because he had heard of his illness and recovery. </span>
<span class="verse es_39_2"><sup>2</sup>Hezekiah received the envoys gladly and showed them what was in his storehouses—the silver, the gold, the spices, the fine olive oil—his entire armory and everything found among his treasures. There was nothing in his palace or in all his kingdom that Hezekiah did not show them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_39_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then Isaiah the prophet went to King Hezekiah and asked, “What did those men say, and where did they come from?” <br/> “From a distant land,” Hezekiah replied. “They came to me from Babylon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_39_4"> <sup>4</sup>The prophet asked, “What did they see in your palace?” <br/> “They saw everything in my palace,” Hezekiah said. “There is nothing among my treasures that I did not show them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_39_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of the Lord Almighty: </span>
<span class="verse es_39_6"><sup>6</sup>The time will surely come when everything in your palace, and all that your predecessors have stored up until this day, will be carried off to Babylon. Nothing will be left, says the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse es_39_7"><sup>7</sup>And some of your descendants, your own flesh and blood who will be born to you, will be taken away, and they will become eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_39_8"> <sup>8</sup>“The word of the Lord you have spoken is good,” Hezekiah replied. For he thought, “There will be peace and security in my lifetime.” <br/></span>
