---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\41.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>41</h1><h3>The Helper of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_41_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Be silent before me, you islands! <br/>   Let the nations renew their strength! <br/>  Let them come forward and speak; <br/>   let us meet together at the place of judgment. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_2">  <sup>2</sup>“Who has stirred up one from the east, <br/>   calling him in righteousness to his service<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or east, / whom victory meets at every step">⚓</a> ? <br/>  He hands nations over to him <br/>   and subdues kings before him. <br/>  He turns them to dust with his sword, <br/>   to windblown chaff with his bow. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_3">  <sup>3</sup>He pursues them and moves on unscathed, <br/>   by a path his feet have not traveled before. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_4">  <sup>4</sup>Who has done this and carried it through, <br/>   calling forth the generations from the beginning? <br/>  I, the Lord—with the first of them <br/>   and with the last—I am he.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_5">  <sup>5</sup>The islands have seen it and fear; <br/>   the ends of the earth tremble. <br/>  They approach and come forward; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_6">   <sup>6</sup>they help each other <br/>   and say to their companions, “Be strong!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_7">  <sup>7</sup>The metalworker encourages the goldsmith, <br/>   and the one who smooths with the hammer <br/>   spurs on the one who strikes the anvil. <br/>  One says of the welding, “It is good.” <br/>   The other nails down the idol so it will not topple. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_8">  <sup>8</sup>“But you, Israel, my servant, <br/>   Jacob, whom I have chosen, <br/>   you descendants of Abraham my friend, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_9">  <sup>9</sup>I took you from the ends of the earth, <br/>   from its farthest corners I called you. <br/>  I said, ‘You are my servant’; <br/>   I have chosen you and have not rejected you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_10">  <sup>10</sup>So do not fear, for I am with you; <br/>   do not be dismayed, for I am your God. <br/>  I will strengthen you and help you; <br/>   I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_11">  <sup>11</sup>“All who rage against you <br/>   will surely be ashamed and disgraced; <br/>  those who oppose you <br/>   will be as nothing and perish. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_12">  <sup>12</sup>Though you search for your enemies, <br/>   you will not find them. <br/>  Those who wage war against you <br/>   will be as nothing at all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_13">  <sup>13</sup>For I am the Lord your God <br/>   who takes hold of your right hand <br/>  and says to you, Do not fear; <br/>   I will help you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_14">  <sup>14</sup>Do not be afraid, you worm Jacob, <br/>   little Israel, do not fear, <br/>  for I myself will help you,” declares the Lord, <br/>   your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_15">  <sup>15</sup>“See, I will make you into a threshing sledge, <br/>   new and sharp, with many teeth. <br/>  You will thresh the mountains and crush them, <br/>   and reduce the hills to chaff. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_16">  <sup>16</sup>You will winnow them, the wind will pick them up, <br/>   and a gale will blow them away. <br/>  But you will rejoice in the Lord<br/>   and glory in the Holy One of Israel. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_17">  <sup>17</sup>“The poor and needy search for water, <br/>   but there is none; <br/>   their tongues are parched with thirst. <br/>  But I the Lord will answer them; <br/>   I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_18">  <sup>18</sup>I will make rivers flow on barren heights, <br/>   and springs within the valleys. <br/>  I will turn the desert into pools of water, <br/>   and the parched ground into springs. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_19">  <sup>19</sup>I will put in the desert <br/>   the cedar and the acacia, the myrtle and the olive. <br/>  I will set junipers in the wasteland, <br/>   the fir and the cypress together, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_20">  <sup>20</sup>so that people may see and know, <br/>   may consider and understand, <br/>  that the hand of the Lord has done this, <br/>   that the Holy One of Israel has created it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_21">  <sup>21</sup>“Present your case,” says the Lord. <br/>   “Set forth your arguments,” says Jacob’s King. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_22">  <sup>22</sup>“Tell us, you idols, <br/>   what is going to happen. <br/>  Tell us what the former things were, <br/>   so that we may consider them <br/>   and know their final outcome. <br/>  Or declare to us the things to come, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_23">   <sup>23</sup>tell us what the future holds, <br/>   so we may know that you are gods. <br/>  Do something, whether good or bad, <br/>   so that we will be dismayed and filled with fear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_24">  <sup>24</sup>But you are less than nothing <br/>   and your works are utterly worthless; <br/>   whoever chooses you is detestable. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_25">  <sup>25</sup>“I have stirred up one from the north, and he comes— <br/>   one from the rising sun who calls on my name. <br/>  He treads on rulers as if they were mortar, <br/>   as if he were a potter treading the clay. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_26">  <sup>26</sup>Who told of this from the beginning, so we could know, <br/>   or beforehand, so we could say, ‘He was right’? <br/>  No one told of this, <br/>   no one foretold it, <br/>   no one heard any words from you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_27">  <sup>27</sup>I was the first to tell Zion, ‘Look, here they are!’ <br/>   I gave to Jerusalem a messenger of good news. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_28">  <sup>28</sup>I look but there is no one— <br/>   no one among the gods to give counsel, <br/>   no one to give answer when I ask them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_41_29">  <sup>29</sup>See, they are all false! <br/>   Their deeds amount to nothing; <br/>   their images are but wind and confusion. <br/></span>
