---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\42.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>42</h1><h3>The Servant of the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_42_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Here is my servant, whom I uphold, <br/>   my chosen one in whom I delight; <br/>  I will put my Spirit on him, <br/>   and he will bring justice to the nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_2">  <sup>2</sup>He will not shout or cry out, <br/>   or raise his voice in the streets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_3">  <sup>3</sup>A bruised reed he will not break, <br/>   and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. <br/>  In faithfulness he will bring forth justice; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_4">   <sup>4</sup>he will not falter or be discouraged <br/>  till he establishes justice on earth. <br/>   In his teaching the islands will put their hope.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_5">  <sup>5</sup>This is what God the Lord says— <br/>  the Creator of the heavens, who stretches them out, <br/>   who spreads out the earth with all that springs from it, <br/>   who gives breath to its people, <br/>   and life to those who walk on it: <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_6">  <sup>6</sup>“I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness; <br/>   I will take hold of your hand. <br/>  I will keep you and will make you <br/>   to be a covenant for the people <br/>   and a light for the Gentiles, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_7">  <sup>7</sup>to open eyes that are blind, <br/>   to free captives from prison <br/>   and to release from the dungeon those who sit in darkness. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_8">  <sup>8</sup>“I am the Lord; that is my name! <br/>   I will not yield my glory to another <br/>   or my praise to idols. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_9">  <sup>9</sup>See, the former things have taken place, <br/>   and new things I declare; <br/>  before they spring into being <br/>   I announce them to you.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Song of Praise to the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_42_10">  <sup>10</sup>Sing to the Lord a new song, <br/>   his praise from the ends of the earth, <br/>  you who go down to the sea, and all that is in it, <br/>   you islands, and all who live in them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_11">  <sup>11</sup>Let the wilderness and its towns raise their voices; <br/>   let the settlements where Kedar lives rejoice. <br/>  Let the people of Sela sing for joy; <br/>   let them shout from the mountaintops. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_12">  <sup>12</sup>Let them give glory to the Lord<br/>   and proclaim his praise in the islands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_13">  <sup>13</sup>The Lord will march out like a champion, <br/>   like a warrior he will stir up his zeal; <br/>  with a shout he will raise the battle cry <br/>   and will triumph over his enemies. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_14">  <sup>14</sup>“For a long time I have kept silent, <br/>   I have been quiet and held myself back. <br/>  But now, like a woman in childbirth, <br/>   I cry out, I gasp and pant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_15">  <sup>15</sup>I will lay waste the mountains and hills <br/>   and dry up all their vegetation; <br/>  I will turn rivers into islands <br/>   and dry up the pools. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_16">  <sup>16</sup>I will lead the blind by ways they have not known, <br/>   along unfamiliar paths I will guide them; <br/>  I will turn the darkness into light before them <br/>   and make the rough places smooth. <br/>  These are the things I will do; <br/>   I will not forsake them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_17">  <sup>17</sup>But those who trust in idols, <br/>   who say to images, ‘You are our gods,’ <br/>   will be turned back in utter shame. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Israel Blind and Deaf </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_42_18">  <sup>18</sup>“Hear, you deaf; <br/>   look, you blind, and see! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_19">  <sup>19</sup>Who is blind but my servant, <br/>   and deaf like the messenger I send? <br/>  Who is blind like the one in covenant with me, <br/>   blind like the servant of the Lord? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_20">  <sup>20</sup>You have seen many things, but you pay no attention; <br/>   your ears are open, but you do not listen.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_21">  <sup>21</sup>It pleased the Lord<br/>   for the sake of his righteousness <br/>   to make his law great and glorious. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_22">  <sup>22</sup>But this is a people plundered and looted, <br/>   all of them trapped in pits <br/>   or hidden away in prisons. <br/>  They have become plunder, <br/>   with no one to rescue them; <br/>  they have been made loot, <br/>   with no one to say, “Send them back.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_23">  <sup>23</sup>Which of you will listen to this <br/>   or pay close attention in time to come? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_24">  <sup>24</sup>Who handed Jacob over to become loot, <br/>   and Israel to the plunderers? <br/>  Was it not the Lord, <br/>   against whom we have sinned? <br/>  For they would not follow his ways; <br/>   they did not obey his law. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_42_25">  <sup>25</sup>So he poured out on them his burning anger, <br/>   the violence of war. <br/>  It enveloped them in flames, yet they did not understand; <br/>   it consumed them, but they did not take it to heart. <br/></span>
