---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\44.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>44</h1><h3>Israel the Chosen </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_44_1">  <sup>1</sup>“But now listen, Jacob, my servant, <br/>   Israel, whom I have chosen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_2">  <sup>2</sup>This is what the Lord says— <br/>   he who made you, who formed you in the womb, <br/>   and who will help you: <br/>  Do not be afraid, Jacob, my servant, <br/>   Jeshurun,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means the upright one , that is, Israel.">⚓</a> whom I have chosen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_3">  <sup>3</sup>For I will pour water on the thirsty land, <br/>   and streams on the dry ground; <br/>  I will pour out my Spirit on your offspring, <br/>   and my blessing on your descendants. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_4">  <sup>4</sup>They will spring up like grass in a meadow, <br/>   like poplar trees by flowing streams. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_5">  <sup>5</sup>Some will say, ‘I belong to the Lord’; <br/>   others will call themselves by the name of Jacob; <br/>  still others will write on their hand, ‘The Lord’s,’ <br/>   and will take the name Israel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Lord, Not Idols </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_44_6">  <sup>6</sup>“This is what the Lord says— <br/>   Israel’s King and Redeemer, the Lord Almighty: <br/>  I am the first and I am the last; <br/>   apart from me there is no God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_7">  <sup>7</sup>Who then is like me? Let him proclaim it. <br/>   Let him declare and lay out before me <br/>  what has happened since I established my ancient people, <br/>   and what is yet to come— <br/>   yes, let them foretell what will come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_8">  <sup>8</sup>Do not tremble, do not be afraid. <br/>   Did I not proclaim this and foretell it long ago? <br/>  You are my witnesses. Is there any God besides me? <br/>   No, there is no other Rock; I know not one.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_9">  <sup>9</sup>All who make idols are nothing, <br/>   and the things they treasure are worthless. <br/>  Those who would speak up for them are blind; <br/>   they are ignorant, to their own shame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_10">  <sup>10</sup>Who shapes a god and casts an idol, <br/>   which can profit nothing? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_11">  <sup>11</sup>People who do that will be put to shame; <br/>   such craftsmen are only human beings. <br/>  Let them all come together and take their stand; <br/>   they will be brought down to terror and shame. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_12">  <sup>12</sup>The blacksmith takes a tool <br/>   and works with it in the coals; <br/>  he shapes an idol with hammers, <br/>   he forges it with the might of his arm. <br/>  He gets hungry and loses his strength; <br/>   he drinks no water and grows faint. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_13">  <sup>13</sup>The carpenter measures with a line <br/>   and makes an outline with a marker; <br/>  he roughs it out with chisels <br/>   and marks it with compasses. <br/>  He shapes it in human form, <br/>   human form in all its glory, <br/>   that it may dwell in a shrine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_14">  <sup>14</sup>He cut down cedars, <br/>   or perhaps took a cypress or oak. <br/>  He let it grow among the trees of the forest, <br/>   or planted a pine, and the rain made it grow. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_15">  <sup>15</sup>It is used as fuel for burning; <br/>   some of it he takes and warms himself, <br/>   he kindles a fire and bakes bread. <br/>  But he also fashions a god and worships it; <br/>   he makes an idol and bows down to it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_16">  <sup>16</sup>Half of the wood he burns in the fire; <br/>   over it he prepares his meal, <br/>   he roasts his meat and eats his fill. <br/>  He also warms himself and says, <br/>   “Ah! I am warm; I see the fire.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_17">  <sup>17</sup>From the rest he makes a god, his idol; <br/>   he bows down to it and worships. <br/>  He prays to it and says, <br/>   “Save me! You are my god!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_18">  <sup>18</sup>They know nothing, they understand nothing; <br/>   their eyes are plastered over so they cannot see, <br/>   and their minds closed so they cannot understand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_19">  <sup>19</sup>No one stops to think, <br/>   no one has the knowledge or understanding to say, <br/>  “Half of it I used for fuel; <br/>   I even baked bread over its coals, <br/>   I roasted meat and I ate. <br/>  Shall I make a detestable thing from what is left? <br/>   Shall I bow down to a block of wood?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_20">  <sup>20</sup>Such a person feeds on ashes; a deluded heart misleads him; <br/>   he cannot save himself, or say, <br/>   “Is not this thing in my right hand a lie?” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_21">  <sup>21</sup>“Remember these things, Jacob, <br/>   for you, Israel, are my servant. <br/>  I have made you, you are my servant; <br/>   Israel, I will not forget you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_22">  <sup>22</sup>I have swept away your offenses like a cloud, <br/>   your sins like the morning mist. <br/>  Return to me, <br/>   for I have redeemed you.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_23">  <sup>23</sup>Sing for joy, you heavens, for the Lord has done this; <br/>   shout aloud, you earth beneath. <br/>  Burst into song, you mountains, <br/>   you forests and all your trees, <br/>  for the Lord has redeemed Jacob, <br/>   he displays his glory in Israel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jerusalem to Be Inhabited </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_44_24">  <sup>24</sup>“This is what the Lord says— <br/>   your Redeemer, who formed you in the womb: <br/><br/>  I am the Lord, <br/>   the Maker of all things, <br/>   who stretches out the heavens, <br/>   who spreads out the earth by myself, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_25">  <sup>25</sup>who foils the signs of false prophets <br/>   and makes fools of diviners, <br/>  who overthrows the learning of the wise <br/>   and turns it into nonsense, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_26">  <sup>26</sup>who carries out the words of his servants <br/>   and fulfills the predictions of his messengers, <br/><br/>  who says of Jerusalem, ‘It shall be inhabited,’ <br/>   of the towns of Judah, ‘They shall be rebuilt,’ <br/>   and of their ruins, ‘I will restore them,’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_27">  <sup>27</sup>who says to the watery deep, ‘Be dry, <br/>   and I will dry up your streams,’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_44_28">  <sup>28</sup>who says of Cyrus, ‘He is my shepherd <br/>   and will accomplish all that I please; <br/>  he will say of Jerusalem, “Let it be rebuilt,” <br/>   and of the temple, “Let its foundations be laid.” ’ <br/><br/></span>
