---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\45.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>45</h1></div>
<span class="verse es_45_1">  <sup>1</sup>“This is what the Lord says to his anointed, <br/>   to Cyrus, whose right hand I take hold of <br/>  to subdue nations before him <br/>   and to strip kings of their armor, <br/>  to open doors before him <br/>   so that gates will not be shut: <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_2">  <sup>2</sup>I will go before you <br/>   and will level the mountains<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint; the meaning of the word in the Masoretic Text is uncertain.">⚓</a> ; <br/>  I will break down gates of bronze <br/>   and cut through bars of iron. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_3">  <sup>3</sup>I will give you hidden treasures, <br/>   riches stored in secret places, <br/>  so that you may know that I am the Lord, <br/>   the God of Israel, who summons you by name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_4">  <sup>4</sup>For the sake of Jacob my servant, <br/>   of Israel my chosen, <br/>  I summon you by name <br/>   and bestow on you a title of honor, <br/>   though you do not acknowledge me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_5">  <sup>5</sup>I am the Lord, and there is no other; <br/>   apart from me there is no God. <br/>  I will strengthen you, <br/>   though you have not acknowledged me, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_6">  <sup>6</sup>so that from the rising of the sun <br/>   to the place of its setting <br/>  people may know there is none besides me. <br/>   I am the Lord, and there is no other. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_7">  <sup>7</sup>I form the light and create darkness, <br/>   I bring prosperity and create disaster; <br/>   I, the Lord, do all these things. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_8">  <sup>8</sup>“You heavens above, rain down my righteousness; <br/>   let the clouds shower it down. <br/>  Let the earth open wide, <br/>   let salvation spring up, <br/>  let righteousness flourish with it; <br/>   I, the Lord, have created it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_9">  <sup>9</sup>“Woe to those who quarrel with their Maker, <br/>   those who are nothing but potsherds <br/>   among the potsherds on the ground. <br/>  Does the clay say to the potter, <br/>   ‘What are you making?’ <br/>  Does your work say, <br/>   ‘The potter has no hands’? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_10">  <sup>10</sup>Woe to the one who says to a father, <br/>   ‘What have you begotten?’ <br/>  or to a mother, <br/>   ‘What have you brought to birth?’ <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_11">  <sup>11</sup>“This is what the Lord says— <br/>   the Holy One of Israel, and its Maker: <br/>  Concerning things to come, <br/>   do you question me about my children, <br/>   or give me orders about the work of my hands? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_12">  <sup>12</sup>It is I who made the earth <br/>   and created mankind on it. <br/>  My own hands stretched out the heavens; <br/>   I marshaled their starry hosts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_13">  <sup>13</sup>I will raise up Cyrus<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew him">⚓</a> in my righteousness: <br/>   I will make all his ways straight. <br/>  He will rebuild my city <br/>   and set my exiles free, <br/>  but not for a price or reward, <br/>   says the Lord Almighty.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_14"> <sup>14</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “The products of Egypt and the merchandise of Cush,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the upper Nile region">⚓</a><br/>   and those tall Sabeans— <br/>  they will come over to you <br/>   and will be yours; <br/>  they will trudge behind you, <br/>   coming over to you in chains. <br/>  They will bow down before you <br/>   and plead with you, saying, <br/>  ‘Surely God is with you, and there is no other; <br/>   there is no other god.’ ” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_15">  <sup>15</sup>Truly you are a God who has been hiding himself, <br/>   the God and Savior of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_16">  <sup>16</sup>All the makers of idols will be put to shame and disgraced; <br/>   they will go off into disgrace together. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_17">  <sup>17</sup>But Israel will be saved by the Lord<br/>   with an everlasting salvation; <br/>  you will never be put to shame or disgraced, <br/>   to ages everlasting. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_18">  <sup>18</sup>For this is what the Lord says— <br/>  he who created the heavens, <br/>   he is God; <br/>  he who fashioned and made the earth, <br/>   he founded it; <br/>  he did not create it to be empty, <br/>   but formed it to be inhabited— <br/>  he says: <br/>  “I am the Lord, <br/>   and there is no other. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_19">  <sup>19</sup>I have not spoken in secret, <br/>   from somewhere in a land of darkness; <br/>  I have not said to Jacob’s descendants, <br/>   ‘Seek me in vain.’ <br/>  I, the Lord, speak the truth; <br/>   I declare what is right. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_20">  <sup>20</sup>“Gather together and come; <br/>   assemble, you fugitives from the nations. <br/>  Ignorant are those who carry about idols of wood, <br/>   who pray to gods that cannot save. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_21">  <sup>21</sup>Declare what is to be, present it— <br/>   let them take counsel together. <br/>  Who foretold this long ago, <br/>   who declared it from the distant past? <br/>  Was it not I, the Lord? <br/>   And there is no God apart from me, <br/>  a righteous God and a Savior; <br/>   there is none but me. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_22">  <sup>22</sup>“Turn to me and be saved, <br/>   all you ends of the earth; <br/>   for I am God, and there is no other. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_23">  <sup>23</sup>By myself I have sworn, <br/>   my mouth has uttered in all integrity <br/>   a word that will not be revoked: <br/>  Before me every knee will bow; <br/>   by me every tongue will swear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_24">  <sup>24</sup>They will say of me, ‘In the Lord alone <br/>   are deliverance and strength.’ ” <br/>  All who have raged against him <br/>   will come to him and be put to shame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_45_25">  <sup>25</sup>But all the descendants of Israel <br/>   will find deliverance in the Lord<br/>   and will make their boast in him. <br/></span>
