---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\46.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>46</h1><h3>Gods of Babylon </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_46_1">  <sup>1</sup>Bel bows down, Nebo stoops low; <br/>   their idols are borne by beasts of burden.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or are but beasts and cattle">⚓</a><br/>  The images that are carried about are burdensome, <br/>   a burden for the weary. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_2">  <sup>2</sup>They stoop and bow down together; <br/>   unable to rescue the burden, <br/>   they themselves go off into captivity. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_3">  <sup>3</sup>“Listen to me, you descendants of Jacob, <br/>   all the remnant of the people of Israel, <br/>  you whom I have upheld since your birth, <br/>   and have carried since you were born. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_4">  <sup>4</sup>Even to your old age and gray hairs <br/>   I am he, I am he who will sustain you. <br/>  I have made you and I will carry you; <br/>   I will sustain you and I will rescue you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_5">  <sup>5</sup>“With whom will you compare me or count me equal? <br/>   To whom will you liken me that we may be compared? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_6">  <sup>6</sup>Some pour out gold from their bags <br/>   and weigh out silver on the scales; <br/>  they hire a goldsmith to make it into a god, <br/>   and they bow down and worship it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_7">  <sup>7</sup>They lift it to their shoulders and carry it; <br/>   they set it up in its place, and there it stands. <br/>   From that spot it cannot move. <br/>  Even though someone cries out to it, it cannot answer; <br/>   it cannot save them from their troubles. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_8">  <sup>8</sup>“Remember this, keep it in mind, <br/>   take it to heart, you rebels. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_9">  <sup>9</sup>Remember the former things, those of long ago; <br/>   I am God, and there is no other; <br/>   I am God, and there is none like me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_10">  <sup>10</sup>I make known the end from the beginning, <br/>   from ancient times, what is still to come. <br/>  I say, ‘My purpose will stand, <br/>   and I will do all that I please.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_11">  <sup>11</sup>From the east I summon a bird of prey; <br/>   from a far-off land, a man to fulfill my purpose. <br/>  What I have said, that I will bring about; <br/>   what I have planned, that I will do. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_12">  <sup>12</sup>Listen to me, you stubborn-hearted, <br/>   you who are now far from my righteousness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_46_13">  <sup>13</sup>I am bringing my righteousness near, <br/>   it is not far away; <br/>   and my salvation will not be delayed. <br/>  I will grant salvation to Zion, <br/>   my splendor to Israel. <br/></span>
