---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\47.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>47</h1><h3>The Fall of Babylon </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_47_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Go down, sit in the dust, <br/>   Virgin Daughter Babylon; <br/>  sit on the ground without a throne, <br/>   queen city of the Babylonians.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans ; also in verse 5">⚓</a><br/>  No more will you be called <br/>   tender or delicate. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_2">  <sup>2</sup>Take millstones and grind flour; <br/>   take off your veil. <br/>  Lift up your skirts, bare your legs, <br/>   and wade through the streams. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_3">  <sup>3</sup>Your nakedness will be exposed <br/>   and your shame uncovered. <br/>  I will take vengeance; <br/>   I will spare no one.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_4">  <sup>4</sup>Our Redeemer—the Lord Almighty is his name— <br/>   is the Holy One of Israel. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_5">  <sup>5</sup>“Sit in silence, go into darkness, <br/>   queen city of the Babylonians; <br/>  no more will you be called <br/>   queen of kingdoms. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_6">  <sup>6</sup>I was angry with my people <br/>   and desecrated my inheritance; <br/>  I gave them into your hand, <br/>   and you showed them no mercy. <br/>  Even on the aged <br/>   you laid a very heavy yoke. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_7">  <sup>7</sup>You said, ‘I am forever— <br/>   the eternal queen!’ <br/>  But you did not consider these things <br/>   or reflect on what might happen. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_8">  <sup>8</sup>“Now then, listen, you lover of pleasure, <br/>   lounging in your security <br/>  and saying to yourself, <br/>   ‘I am, and there is none besides me. <br/>  I will never be a widow <br/>   or suffer the loss of children.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_9">  <sup>9</sup>Both of these will overtake you <br/>   in a moment, on a single day: <br/>   loss of children and widowhood. <br/>  They will come upon you in full measure, <br/>   in spite of your many sorceries <br/>   and all your potent spells. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_10">  <sup>10</sup>You have trusted in your wickedness <br/>   and have said, ‘No one sees me.’ <br/>  Your wisdom and knowledge mislead you <br/>   when you say to yourself, <br/>   ‘I am, and there is none besides me.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_11">  <sup>11</sup>Disaster will come upon you, <br/>   and you will not know how to conjure it away. <br/>  A calamity will fall upon you <br/>   that you cannot ward off with a ransom; <br/>  a catastrophe you cannot foresee <br/>   will suddenly come upon you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Keep on, then, with your magic spells <br/>   and with your many sorceries, <br/>   which you have labored at since childhood. <br/>  Perhaps you will succeed, <br/>   perhaps you will cause terror. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_13">  <sup>13</sup>All the counsel you have received has only worn you out! <br/>   Let your astrologers come forward, <br/>  those stargazers who make predictions month by month, <br/>   let them save you from what is coming upon you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_14">  <sup>14</sup>Surely they are like stubble; <br/>   the fire will burn them up. <br/>  They cannot even save themselves <br/>   from the power of the flame. <br/>  These are not coals for warmth; <br/>   this is not a fire to sit by. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_47_15">  <sup>15</sup>That is all they are to you— <br/>   these you have dealt with <br/>   and labored with since childhood. <br/>  All of them go on in their error; <br/>   there is not one that can save you. <br/></span>
