---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\48.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>48</h1><h3>Stubborn Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_48_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Listen to this, you descendants of Jacob, <br/>   you who are called by the name of Israel <br/>   and come from the line of Judah, <br/>  you who take oaths in the name of the Lord<br/>   and invoke the God of Israel— <br/>   but not in truth or righteousness— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_2">  <sup>2</sup>you who call yourselves citizens of the holy city <br/>   and claim to rely on the God of Israel— <br/>   the Lord Almighty is his name: <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_3">  <sup>3</sup>I foretold the former things long ago, <br/>   my mouth announced them and I made them known; <br/>   then suddenly I acted, and they came to pass. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_4">  <sup>4</sup>For I knew how stubborn you were; <br/>   your neck muscles were iron, <br/>   your forehead was bronze. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_5">  <sup>5</sup>Therefore I told you these things long ago; <br/>   before they happened I announced them to you <br/>  so that you could not say, <br/>   ‘My images brought them about; <br/>   my wooden image and metal god ordained them.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_6">  <sup>6</sup>You have heard these things; look at them all. <br/>   Will you not admit them? <br/><br/>  “From now on I will tell you of new things, <br/>   of hidden things unknown to you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_7">  <sup>7</sup>They are created now, and not long ago; <br/>   you have not heard of them before today. <br/>  So you cannot say, <br/>   ‘Yes, I knew of them.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_8">  <sup>8</sup>You have neither heard nor understood; <br/>   from of old your ears have not been open. <br/>  Well do I know how treacherous you are; <br/>   you were called a rebel from birth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_9">  <sup>9</sup>For my own name’s sake I delay my wrath; <br/>   for the sake of my praise I hold it back from you, <br/>   so as not to destroy you completely. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_10">  <sup>10</sup>See, I have refined you, though not as silver; <br/>   I have tested you in the furnace of affliction. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_11">  <sup>11</sup>For my own sake, for my own sake, I do this. <br/>   How can I let myself be defamed? <br/>   I will not yield my glory to another. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Israel Freed </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_48_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Listen to me, Jacob, <br/>   Israel, whom I have called: <br/>  I am he; <br/>   I am the first and I am the last. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_13">  <sup>13</sup>My own hand laid the foundations of the earth, <br/>   and my right hand spread out the heavens; <br/>  when I summon them, <br/>   they all stand up together. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_14">  <sup>14</sup>“Come together, all of you, and listen: <br/>   Which of the idols has foretold these things? <br/>  The Lord’s chosen ally <br/>   will carry out his purpose against Babylon; <br/>   his arm will be against the Babylonians.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans ; also in verse 20">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_15">  <sup>15</sup>I, even I, have spoken; <br/>   yes, I have called him. <br/>  I will bring him, <br/>   and he will succeed in his mission. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_16"> <sup>16</sup>“Come near me and listen to this: <br/>  “From the first announcement I have not spoken in secret; <br/>   at the time it happens, I am there.” <br/><br/>  And now the Sovereign Lord has sent me, <br/>   endowed with his Spirit. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_17">  <sup>17</sup>This is what the Lord says— <br/>   your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: <br/>  “I am the Lord your God, <br/>   who teaches you what is best for you, <br/>   who directs you in the way you should go. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_18">  <sup>18</sup>If only you had paid attention to my commands, <br/>   your peace would have been like a river, <br/>   your well-being like the waves of the sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_19">  <sup>19</sup>Your descendants would have been like the sand, <br/>   your children like its numberless grains; <br/>  their name would never be blotted out <br/>   nor destroyed from before me.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_20">  <sup>20</sup>Leave Babylon, <br/>   flee from the Babylonians! <br/>  Announce this with shouts of joy <br/>   and proclaim it. <br/>  Send it out to the ends of the earth; <br/>   say, “The Lord has redeemed his servant Jacob.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_21">  <sup>21</sup>They did not thirst when he led them through the deserts; <br/>   he made water flow for them from the rock; <br/>  he split the rock <br/>   and water gushed out. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_48_22">  <sup>22</sup>“There is no peace,” says the Lord, “for the wicked.” <br/></span>
