---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\49.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>49</h1><h3>The Servant of the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_49_1">  <sup>1</sup>Listen to me, you islands; <br/>   hear this, you distant nations: <br/>  Before I was born the Lord called me; <br/>   from my mother’s womb he has spoken my name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_2">  <sup>2</sup>He made my mouth like a sharpened sword, <br/>   in the shadow of his hand he hid me; <br/>  he made me into a polished arrow <br/>   and concealed me in his quiver. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_3">  <sup>3</sup>He said to me, “You are my servant, <br/>   Israel, in whom I will display my splendor.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_4">  <sup>4</sup>But I said, “I have labored in vain; <br/>   I have spent my strength for nothing at all. <br/>  Yet what is due me is in the Lord’s hand, <br/>   and my reward is with my God.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_5">  <sup>5</sup>And now the Lord says— <br/>   he who formed me in the womb to be his servant <br/>  to bring Jacob back to him <br/>   and gather Israel to himself, <br/>  for I am<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or him, / but Israel would not be gathered; / yet I will be">⚓</a> honored in the eyes of the Lord<br/>   and my God has been my strength— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_6">  <sup>6</sup>he says: <br/>  “It is too small a thing for you to be my servant <br/>   to restore the tribes of Jacob <br/>   and bring back those of Israel I have kept. <br/>  I will also make you a light for the Gentiles, <br/>   that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_7">  <sup>7</sup>This is what the Lord says— <br/>   the Redeemer and Holy One of Israel— <br/>  to him who was despised and abhorred by the nation, <br/>   to the servant of rulers: <br/>  “Kings will see you and stand up, <br/>   princes will see and bow down, <br/>  because of the Lord, who is faithful, <br/>   the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Restoration of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_49_8"> <sup>8</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “In the time of my favor I will answer you, <br/>   and in the day of salvation I will help you; <br/>  I will keep you and will make you <br/>   to be a covenant for the people, <br/>  to restore the land <br/>   and to reassign its desolate inheritances, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_9">  <sup>9</sup>to say to the captives, ‘Come out,’ <br/>   and to those in darkness, ‘Be free!’ <br/><br/>  “They will feed beside the roads <br/>   and find pasture on every barren hill. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_10">  <sup>10</sup>They will neither hunger nor thirst, <br/>   nor will the desert heat or the sun beat down on them. <br/>  He who has compassion on them will guide them <br/>   and lead them beside springs of water. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_11">  <sup>11</sup>I will turn all my mountains into roads, <br/>   and my highways will be raised up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_12">  <sup>12</sup>See, they will come from afar— <br/>   some from the north, some from the west, <br/>   some from the region of Aswan.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls; Masoretic Text Sinim">⚓</a> ” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_13">  <sup>13</sup>Shout for joy, you heavens; <br/>   rejoice, you earth; <br/>   burst into song, you mountains! <br/>  For the Lord comforts his people <br/>   and will have compassion on his afflicted ones. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_14">  <sup>14</sup>But Zion said, “The Lord has forsaken me, <br/>   the Lord has forgotten me.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_15">  <sup>15</sup>“Can a mother forget the baby at her breast <br/>   and have no compassion on the child she has borne? <br/>  Though she may forget, <br/>   I will not forget you! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_16">  <sup>16</sup>See, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; <br/>   your walls are ever before me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_17">  <sup>17</sup>Your children hasten back, <br/>   and those who laid you waste depart from you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_18">  <sup>18</sup>Lift up your eyes and look around; <br/>   all your children gather and come to you. <br/>  As surely as I live,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “you will wear them all as ornaments; <br/>   you will put them on, like a bride. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_19">  <sup>19</sup>“Though you were ruined and made desolate <br/>   and your land laid waste, <br/>  now you will be too small for your people, <br/>   and those who devoured you will be far away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_20">  <sup>20</sup>The children born during your bereavement <br/>   will yet say in your hearing, <br/>  ‘This place is too small for us; <br/>   give us more space to live in.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_21">  <sup>21</sup>Then you will say in your heart, <br/>   ‘Who bore me these? <br/>  I was bereaved and barren; <br/>   I was exiled and rejected. <br/>   Who brought these up? <br/>  I was left all alone, <br/>   but these—where have they come from?’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_22"> <sup>22</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “See, I will beckon to the nations, <br/>   I will lift up my banner to the peoples; <br/>  they will bring your sons in their arms <br/>   and carry your daughters on their hips. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_23">  <sup>23</sup>Kings will be your foster fathers, <br/>   and their queens your nursing mothers. <br/>  They will bow down before you with their faces to the ground; <br/>   they will lick the dust at your feet. <br/>  Then you will know that I am the Lord; <br/>   those who hope in me will not be disappointed.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_24">  <sup>24</sup>Can plunder be taken from warriors, <br/>   or captives be rescued from the fierce<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls, Vulgate and Syriac (see also Septuagint and verse 25); Masoretic Text righteous">⚓</a> ? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_25"> <sup>25</sup>But this is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Yes, captives will be taken from warriors, <br/>   and plunder retrieved from the fierce; <br/>  I will contend with those who contend with you, <br/>   and your children I will save. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_49_26">  <sup>26</sup>I will make your oppressors eat their own flesh; <br/>   they will be drunk on their own blood, as with wine. <br/>  Then all mankind will know <br/>   that I, the Lord, am your Savior, <br/>   your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.” <br/></span>
