---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\50.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>50</h1><h3>Israel’s Sin and the Servant’s Obedience </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_50_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Where is your mother’s certificate of divorce <br/>   with which I sent her away? <br/>  Or to which of my creditors <br/>   did I sell you? <br/>  Because of your sins you were sold; <br/>   because of your transgressions your mother was sent away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_2">  <sup>2</sup>When I came, why was there no one? <br/>   When I called, why was there no one to answer? <br/>  Was my arm too short to deliver you? <br/>   Do I lack the strength to rescue you? <br/>  By a mere rebuke I dry up the sea, <br/>   I turn rivers into a desert; <br/>  their fish rot for lack of water <br/>   and die of thirst. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_3">  <sup>3</sup>I clothe the heavens with darkness <br/>   and make sackcloth its covering.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_4">  <sup>4</sup>The Sovereign Lord has given me a well-instructed tongue, <br/>   to know the word that sustains the weary. <br/>  He wakens me morning by morning, <br/>   wakens my ear to listen like one being instructed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_5">  <sup>5</sup>The Sovereign Lord has opened my ears; <br/>   I have not been rebellious, <br/>   I have not turned away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_6">  <sup>6</sup>I offered my back to those who beat me, <br/>   my cheeks to those who pulled out my beard; <br/>  I did not hide my face <br/>   from mocking and spitting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_7">  <sup>7</sup>Because the Sovereign Lord helps me, <br/>   I will not be disgraced. <br/>  Therefore have I set my face like flint, <br/>   and I know I will not be put to shame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_8">  <sup>8</sup>He who vindicates me is near. <br/>   Who then will bring charges against me? <br/>   Let us face each other! <br/>  Who is my accuser? <br/>   Let him confront me! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_9">  <sup>9</sup>It is the Sovereign Lord who helps me. <br/>   Who will condemn me? <br/>  They will all wear out like a garment; <br/>   the moths will eat them up. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_10">  <sup>10</sup>Who among you fears the Lord<br/>   and obeys the word of his servant? <br/>  Let the one who walks in the dark, <br/>   who has no light, <br/>  trust in the name of the Lord<br/>   and rely on their God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_50_11">  <sup>11</sup>But now, all you who light fires <br/>   and provide yourselves with flaming torches, <br/>  go, walk in the light of your fires <br/>   and of the torches you have set ablaze. <br/>  This is what you shall receive from my hand: <br/>   You will lie down in torment. <br/></span>
