---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\51.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>51</h1><h3>Everlasting Salvation for Zion </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_51_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness <br/>   and who seek the Lord: <br/>  Look to the rock from which you were cut <br/>   and to the quarry from which you were hewn; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_2">  <sup>2</sup>look to Abraham, your father, <br/>   and to Sarah, who gave you birth. <br/>  When I called him he was only one man, <br/>   and I blessed him and made him many. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_3">  <sup>3</sup>The Lord will surely comfort Zion <br/>   and will look with compassion on all her ruins; <br/>  he will make her deserts like Eden, <br/>   her wastelands like the garden of the Lord. <br/>  Joy and gladness will be found in her, <br/>   thanksgiving and the sound of singing. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_4">  <sup>4</sup>“Listen to me, my people; <br/>   hear me, my nation: <br/>  Instruction will go out from me; <br/>   my justice will become a light to the nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_5">  <sup>5</sup>My righteousness draws near speedily, <br/>   my salvation is on the way, <br/>   and my arm will bring justice to the nations. <br/>  The islands will look to me <br/>   and wait in hope for my arm. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_6">  <sup>6</sup>Lift up your eyes to the heavens, <br/>   look at the earth beneath; <br/>  the heavens will vanish like smoke, <br/>   the earth will wear out like a garment <br/>   and its inhabitants die like flies. <br/>  But my salvation will last forever, <br/>   my righteousness will never fail. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_7">  <sup>7</sup>“Hear me, you who know what is right, <br/>   you people who have taken my instruction to heart: <br/>  Do not fear the reproach of mere mortals <br/>   or be terrified by their insults. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_8">  <sup>8</sup>For the moth will eat them up like a garment; <br/>   the worm will devour them like wool. <br/>  But my righteousness will last forever, <br/>   my salvation through all generations.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_9">  <sup>9</sup>Awake, awake, arm of the Lord, <br/>   clothe yourself with strength! <br/>  Awake, as in days gone by, <br/>   as in generations of old. <br/>  Was it not you who cut Rahab to pieces, <br/>   who pierced that monster through? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_10">  <sup>10</sup>Was it not you who dried up the sea, <br/>   the waters of the great deep, <br/>  who made a road in the depths of the sea <br/>   so that the redeemed might cross over? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_11">  <sup>11</sup>Those the Lord has rescued will return. <br/>   They will enter Zion with singing; <br/>   everlasting joy will crown their heads. <br/>  Gladness and joy will overtake them, <br/>   and sorrow and sighing will flee away. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_12">  <sup>12</sup>“I, even I, am he who comforts you. <br/>   Who are you that you fear mere mortals, <br/>   human beings who are but grass, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_13">  <sup>13</sup>that you forget the Lord your Maker, <br/>   who stretches out the heavens <br/>   and who lays the foundations of the earth, <br/>  that you live in constant terror every day <br/>   because of the wrath of the oppressor, <br/>   who is bent on destruction? <br/>  For where is the wrath of the oppressor? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_14">   <sup>14</sup>The cowering prisoners will soon be set free; <br/>  they will not die in their dungeon, <br/>   nor will they lack bread. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_15">  <sup>15</sup>For I am the Lord your God, <br/>   who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar— <br/>   the Lord Almighty is his name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_16">  <sup>16</sup>I have put my words in your mouth <br/>   and covered you with the shadow of my hand— <br/>  I who set the heavens in place, <br/>   who laid the foundations of the earth, <br/>   and who say to Zion, ‘You are my people.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Cup of the Lord’s Wrath </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_51_17">  <sup>17</sup>Awake, awake! <br/>   Rise up, Jerusalem, <br/>  you who have drunk from the hand of the Lord<br/>   the cup of his wrath, <br/>  you who have drained to its dregs <br/>   the goblet that makes people stagger. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_18">  <sup>18</sup>Among all the children she bore <br/>   there was none to guide her; <br/>  among all the children she reared <br/>   there was none to take her by the hand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_19">  <sup>19</sup>These double calamities have come upon you— <br/>   who can comfort you?— <br/>  ruin and destruction, famine and sword— <br/>   who can<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac; Masoretic Text / how can I">⚓</a> console you? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_20">  <sup>20</sup>Your children have fainted; <br/>   they lie at every street corner, <br/>   like antelope caught in a net. <br/>  They are filled with the wrath of the Lord, <br/>   with the rebuke of your God. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_21">  <sup>21</sup>Therefore hear this, you afflicted one, <br/>   made drunk, but not with wine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_22">  <sup>22</sup>This is what your Sovereign Lord says, <br/>   your God, who defends his people: <br/>  “See, I have taken out of your hand <br/>   the cup that made you stagger; <br/>  from that cup, the goblet of my wrath, <br/>   you will never drink again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_51_23">  <sup>23</sup>I will put it into the hands of your tormentors, <br/>   who said to you, <br/>   ‘Fall prostrate that we may walk on you.’ <br/>  And you made your back like the ground, <br/>   like a street to be walked on.” <br/><br/></span>
