---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\54.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>54</h1><h3>The Future Glory of Zion </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_54_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Sing, barren woman, <br/>   you who never bore a child; <br/>  burst into song, shout for joy, <br/>   you who were never in labor; <br/>  because more are the children of the desolate woman <br/>   than of her who has a husband,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">says the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_2">  <sup>2</sup>“Enlarge the place of your tent, <br/>   stretch your tent curtains wide, <br/>   do not hold back; <br/>  lengthen your cords, <br/>   strengthen your stakes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_3">  <sup>3</sup>For you will spread out to the right and to the left; <br/>   your descendants will dispossess nations <br/>   and settle in their desolate cities. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_4">  <sup>4</sup>“Do not be afraid; you will not be put to shame. <br/>   Do not fear disgrace; you will not be humiliated. <br/>  You will forget the shame of your youth <br/>   and remember no more the reproach of your widowhood. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_5">  <sup>5</sup>For your Maker is your husband— <br/>   the Lord Almighty is his name— <br/>  the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer; <br/>   he is called the God of all the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_6">  <sup>6</sup>The Lord will call you back <br/>   as if you were a wife deserted and distressed in spirit— <br/>  a wife who married young, <br/>   only to be rejected,” says your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_7">  <sup>7</sup>“For a brief moment I abandoned you, <br/>   but with deep compassion I will bring you back. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_8">  <sup>8</sup>In a surge of anger <br/>   I hid my face from you for a moment, <br/>  but with everlasting kindness <br/>   I will have compassion on you,” <br/>   says the Lord your Redeemer. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_9">  <sup>9</sup>“To me this is like the days of Noah, <br/>   when I swore that the waters of Noah would never again cover the earth. <br/>  So now I have sworn not to be angry with you, <br/>   never to rebuke you again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_10">  <sup>10</sup>Though the mountains be shaken <br/>   and the hills be removed, <br/>  yet my unfailing love for you will not be shaken <br/>   nor my covenant of peace be removed,” <br/>   says the Lord, who has compassion on you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_11">  <sup>11</sup>“Afflicted city, lashed by storms and not comforted, <br/>   I will rebuild you with stones of turquoise,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a><br/>   your foundations with lapis lazuli. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_12">  <sup>12</sup>I will make your battlements of rubies, <br/>   your gates of sparkling jewels, <br/>   and all your walls of precious stones. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_13">  <sup>13</sup>All your children will be taught by the Lord, <br/>   and great will be their peace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_14">  <sup>14</sup>In righteousness you will be established: <br/>  Tyranny will be far from you; <br/>   you will have nothing to fear. <br/>  Terror will be far removed; <br/>   it will not come near you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_15">  <sup>15</sup>If anyone does attack you, it will not be my doing; <br/>   whoever attacks you will surrender to you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_16">  <sup>16</sup>“See, it is I who created the blacksmith <br/>   who fans the coals into flame <br/>   and forges a weapon fit for its work. <br/>  And it is I who have created the destroyer to wreak havoc; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_54_17">   <sup>17</sup>no weapon forged against you will prevail, <br/>   and you will refute every tongue that accuses you. <br/>  This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord, <br/>   and this is their vindication from me,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
