---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\55.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>55</h1><h3>Invitation to the Thirsty </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_55_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Come, all you who are thirsty, <br/>   come to the waters; <br/>  and you who have no money, <br/>   come, buy and eat! <br/>  Come, buy wine and milk <br/>   without money and without cost. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_2">  <sup>2</sup>Why spend money on what is not bread, <br/>   and your labor on what does not satisfy? <br/>  Listen, listen to me, and eat what is good, <br/>   and you will delight in the richest of fare. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_3">  <sup>3</sup>Give ear and come to me; <br/>   listen, that you may live. <br/>  I will make an everlasting covenant with you, <br/>   my faithful love promised to David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_4">  <sup>4</sup>See, I have made him a witness to the peoples, <br/>   a ruler and commander of the peoples. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_5">  <sup>5</sup>Surely you will summon nations you know not, <br/>   and nations you do not know will come running to you, <br/>  because of the Lord your God, <br/>   the Holy One of Israel, <br/>   for he has endowed you with splendor.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_6">  <sup>6</sup>Seek the Lord while he may be found; <br/>   call on him while he is near. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_7">  <sup>7</sup>Let the wicked forsake their ways <br/>   and the unrighteous their thoughts. <br/>  Let them turn to the Lord, and he will have mercy on them, <br/>   and to our God, for he will freely pardon. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_8">  <sup>8</sup>“For my thoughts are not your thoughts, <br/>   neither are your ways my ways,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_9">  <sup>9</sup>“As the heavens are higher than the earth, <br/>   so are my ways higher than your ways <br/>   and my thoughts than your thoughts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_10">  <sup>10</sup>As the rain and the snow <br/>   come down from heaven, <br/>  and do not return to it <br/>   without watering the earth <br/>  and making it bud and flourish, <br/>   so that it yields seed for the sower and bread for the eater, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_11">  <sup>11</sup>so is my word that goes out from my mouth: <br/>   It will not return to me empty, <br/>  but will accomplish what I desire <br/>   and achieve the purpose for which I sent it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_12">  <sup>12</sup>You will go out in joy <br/>   and be led forth in peace; <br/>  the mountains and hills <br/>   will burst into song before you, <br/>  and all the trees of the field <br/>   will clap their hands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_55_13">  <sup>13</sup>Instead of the thornbush will grow the juniper, <br/>   and instead of briers the myrtle will grow. <br/>  This will be for the Lord’s renown, <br/>   for an everlasting sign, <br/>   that will endure forever.” <br/></span>
