---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\56.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>56</h1><h3>Salvation for Others </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_56_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Maintain justice <br/>   and do what is right, <br/>  for my salvation is close at hand <br/>   and my righteousness will soon be revealed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_2">  <sup>2</sup>Blessed is the one who does this— <br/>   the person who holds it fast, <br/>  who keeps the Sabbath without desecrating it, <br/>   and keeps their hands from doing any evil.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_3">  <sup>3</sup>Let no foreigner who is bound to the Lord say, <br/>   “The Lord will surely exclude me from his people.” <br/>  And let no eunuch complain, <br/>   “I am only a dry tree.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_4"> <sup>4</sup>For this is what the Lord says: <br/>  “To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, <br/>   who choose what pleases me <br/>   and hold fast to my covenant— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_5">  <sup>5</sup>to them I will give within my temple and its walls <br/>   a memorial and a name <br/>   better than sons and daughters; <br/>  I will give them an everlasting name <br/>   that will endure forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_6">  <sup>6</sup>And foreigners who bind themselves to the Lord<br/>   to minister to him, <br/>  to love the name of the Lord, <br/>   and to be his servants, <br/>  all who keep the Sabbath without desecrating it <br/>   and who hold fast to my covenant— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_7">  <sup>7</sup>these I will bring to my holy mountain <br/>   and give them joy in my house of prayer. <br/>  Their burnt offerings and sacrifices <br/>   will be accepted on my altar; <br/>  for my house will be called <br/>   a house of prayer for all nations.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_8">  <sup>8</sup>The Sovereign Lord declares— <br/>   he who gathers the exiles of Israel: <br/>  “I will gather still others to them <br/>   besides those already gathered.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Accusation Against the Wicked </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_56_9">  <sup>9</sup>Come, all you beasts of the field, <br/>   come and devour, all you beasts of the forest! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_10">  <sup>10</sup>Israel’s watchmen are blind, <br/>   they all lack knowledge; <br/>  they are all mute dogs, <br/>   they cannot bark; <br/>  they lie around and dream, <br/>   they love to sleep. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_11">  <sup>11</sup>They are dogs with mighty appetites; <br/>   they never have enough. <br/>  They are shepherds who lack understanding; <br/>   they all turn to their own way, <br/>   they seek their own gain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_56_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Come,” each one cries, “let me get wine! <br/>   Let us drink our fill of beer! <br/>  And tomorrow will be like today, <br/>   or even far better.” <br/><br/></span>
