---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\57.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>57</h1></div>
<span class="verse es_57_1">  <sup>1</sup>The righteous perish, <br/>   and no one takes it to heart; <br/>  the devout are taken away, <br/>   and no one understands <br/>  that the righteous are taken away <br/>   to be spared from evil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_2">  <sup>2</sup>Those who walk uprightly <br/>   enter into peace; <br/>   they find rest as they lie in death. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_3">  <sup>3</sup>“But you—come here, you children of a sorceress, <br/>   you offspring of adulterers and prostitutes! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_4">  <sup>4</sup>Who are you mocking? <br/>   At whom do you sneer <br/>   and stick out your tongue? <br/>  Are you not a brood of rebels, <br/>   the offspring of liars? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_5">  <sup>5</sup>You burn with lust among the oaks <br/>   and under every spreading tree; <br/>  you sacrifice your children in the ravines <br/>   and under the overhanging crags. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_6">  <sup>6</sup>The idols among the smooth stones of the ravines are your portion; <br/>   indeed, they are your lot. <br/>  Yes, to them you have poured out drink offerings <br/>   and offered grain offerings. <br/>   In view of all this, should I relent? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_7">  <sup>7</sup>You have made your bed on a high and lofty hill; <br/>   there you went up to offer your sacrifices. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_8">  <sup>8</sup>Behind your doors and your doorposts <br/>   you have put your pagan symbols. <br/>  Forsaking me, you uncovered your bed, <br/>   you climbed into it and opened it wide; <br/>  you made a pact with those whose beds you love, <br/>   and you looked with lust on their naked bodies. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_9">  <sup>9</sup>You went to Molek<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to the king">⚓</a> with olive oil <br/>   and increased your perfumes. <br/>  You sent your ambassadors<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or idols">⚓</a> far away; <br/>   you descended to the very realm of the dead! <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_10">  <sup>10</sup>You wearied yourself by such going about, <br/>   but you would not say, ‘It is hopeless.’ <br/>  You found renewal of your strength, <br/>   and so you did not faint. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_11">  <sup>11</sup>“Whom have you so dreaded and feared <br/>   that you have not been true to me, <br/>  and have neither remembered me <br/>   nor taken this to heart? <br/>  Is it not because I have long been silent <br/>   that you do not fear me? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_12">  <sup>12</sup>I will expose your righteousness and your works, <br/>   and they will not benefit you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_13">  <sup>13</sup>When you cry out for help, <br/>   let your collection of idols save you! <br/>  The wind will carry all of them off, <br/>   a mere breath will blow them away. <br/>  But whoever takes refuge in me <br/>   will inherit the land <br/>   and possess my holy mountain.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Comfort for the Contrite </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_57_14"> <sup>14</sup>And it will be said: <br/>  “Build up, build up, prepare the road! <br/>   Remove the obstacles out of the way of my people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_15">  <sup>15</sup>For this is what the high and exalted One says— <br/>   he who lives forever, whose name is holy: <br/>  “I live in a high and holy place, <br/>   but also with the one who is contrite and lowly in spirit, <br/>  to revive the spirit of the lowly <br/>   and to revive the heart of the contrite. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_16">  <sup>16</sup>I will not accuse them forever, <br/>   nor will I always be angry, <br/>  for then they would faint away because of me— <br/>   the very people I have created. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_17">  <sup>17</sup>I was enraged by their sinful greed; <br/>   I punished them, and hid my face in anger, <br/>   yet they kept on in their willful ways. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_18">  <sup>18</sup>I have seen their ways, but I will heal them; <br/>   I will guide them and restore comfort to Israel’s mourners, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_19">   <sup>19</sup>creating praise on their lips. <br/>  Peace, peace, to those far and near,” <br/>   says the Lord. “And I will heal them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_20">  <sup>20</sup>But the wicked are like the tossing sea, <br/>   which cannot rest, <br/>   whose waves cast up mire and mud. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_57_21">  <sup>21</sup>“There is no peace,” says my God, “for the wicked.” <br/></span>
