---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\58.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>58</h1><h3>True Fasting </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_58_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Shout it aloud, do not hold back. <br/>   Raise your voice like a trumpet. <br/>  Declare to my people their rebellion <br/>   and to the descendants of Jacob their sins. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_2">  <sup>2</sup>For day after day they seek me out; <br/>   they seem eager to know my ways, <br/>  as if they were a nation that does what is right <br/>   and has not forsaken the commands of its God. <br/>  They ask me for just decisions <br/>   and seem eager for God to come near them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_3">  <sup>3</sup>‘Why have we fasted,’ they say, <br/>   ‘and you have not seen it? <br/>  Why have we humbled ourselves, <br/>   and you have not noticed?’ <br/><br/>  “Yet on the day of your fasting, you do as you please <br/>   and exploit all your workers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_4">  <sup>4</sup>Your fasting ends in quarreling and strife, <br/>   and in striking each other with wicked fists. <br/>  You cannot fast as you do today <br/>   and expect your voice to be heard on high. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_5">  <sup>5</sup>Is this the kind of fast I have chosen, <br/>   only a day for people to humble themselves? <br/>  Is it only for bowing one’s head like a reed <br/>   and for lying in sackcloth and ashes? <br/>  Is that what you call a fast, <br/>   a day acceptable to the Lord? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_6">  <sup>6</sup>“Is not this the kind of fasting I have chosen: <br/>  to loose the chains of injustice <br/>   and untie the cords of the yoke, <br/>  to set the oppressed free <br/>   and break every yoke? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_7">  <sup>7</sup>Is it not to share your food with the hungry <br/>   and to provide the poor wanderer with shelter— <br/>  when you see the naked, to clothe them, <br/>   and not to turn away from your own flesh and blood? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_8">  <sup>8</sup>Then your light will break forth like the dawn, <br/>   and your healing will quickly appear; <br/>  then your righteousness<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or your righteous One">⚓</a> will go before you, <br/>   and the glory of the Lord will be your rear guard. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_9">  <sup>9</sup>Then you will call, and the Lord will answer; <br/>   you will cry for help, and he will say: Here am I. <br/><br/>  “If you do away with the yoke of oppression, <br/>   with the pointing finger and malicious talk, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_10">  <sup>10</sup>and if you spend yourselves in behalf of the hungry <br/>   and satisfy the needs of the oppressed, <br/>  then your light will rise in the darkness, <br/>   and your night will become like the noonday. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_11">  <sup>11</sup>The Lord will guide you always; <br/>   he will satisfy your needs in a sun-scorched land <br/>   and will strengthen your frame. <br/>  You will be like a well-watered garden, <br/>   like a spring whose waters never fail. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_12">  <sup>12</sup>Your people will rebuild the ancient ruins <br/>   and will raise up the age-old foundations; <br/>  you will be called Repairer of Broken Walls, <br/>   Restorer of Streets with Dwellings. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_13">  <sup>13</sup>“If you keep your feet from breaking the Sabbath <br/>   and from doing as you please on my holy day, <br/>  if you call the Sabbath a delight <br/>   and the Lord’s holy day honorable, <br/>  and if you honor it by not going your own way <br/>   and not doing as you please or speaking idle words, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_58_14">  <sup>14</sup>then you will find your joy in the Lord, <br/>   and I will cause you to ride in triumph on the heights of the land <br/>   and to feast on the inheritance of your father Jacob.” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">The mouth of the Lord has spoken. </aside><br/></span>
