---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\60.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>60</h1><h3>The Glory of Zion </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_60_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Arise, shine, for your light has come, <br/>   and the glory of the Lord rises upon you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_2">  <sup>2</sup>See, darkness covers the earth <br/>   and thick darkness is over the peoples, <br/>  but the Lord rises upon you <br/>   and his glory appears over you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_3">  <sup>3</sup>Nations will come to your light, <br/>   and kings to the brightness of your dawn. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_4">  <sup>4</sup>“Lift up your eyes and look about you: <br/>   All assemble and come to you; <br/>  your sons come from afar, <br/>   and your daughters are carried on the hip. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_5">  <sup>5</sup>Then you will look and be radiant, <br/>   your heart will throb and swell with joy; <br/>  the wealth on the seas will be brought to you, <br/>   to you the riches of the nations will come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_6">  <sup>6</sup>Herds of camels will cover your land, <br/>   young camels of Midian and Ephah. <br/>  And all from Sheba will come, <br/>   bearing gold and incense <br/>   and proclaiming the praise of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_7">  <sup>7</sup>All Kedar’s flocks will be gathered to you, <br/>   the rams of Nebaioth will serve you; <br/>  they will be accepted as offerings on my altar, <br/>   and I will adorn my glorious temple. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_8">  <sup>8</sup>“Who are these that fly along like clouds, <br/>   like doves to their nests? <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_9">  <sup>9</sup>Surely the islands look to me; <br/>   in the lead are the ships of Tarshish,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the trading ships">⚓</a><br/>  bringing your children from afar, <br/>   with their silver and gold, <br/>  to the honor of the Lord your God, <br/>   the Holy One of Israel, <br/>   for he has endowed you with splendor. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_10">  <sup>10</sup>“Foreigners will rebuild your walls, <br/>   and their kings will serve you. <br/>  Though in anger I struck you, <br/>   in favor I will show you compassion. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_11">  <sup>11</sup>Your gates will always stand open, <br/>   they will never be shut, day or night, <br/>  so that people may bring you the wealth of the nations— <br/>   their kings led in triumphal procession. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_12">  <sup>12</sup>For the nation or kingdom that will not serve you will perish; <br/>   it will be utterly ruined. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_13">  <sup>13</sup>“The glory of Lebanon will come to you, <br/>   the juniper, the fir and the cypress together, <br/>  to adorn my sanctuary; <br/>   and I will glorify the place for my feet. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_14">  <sup>14</sup>The children of your oppressors will come bowing before you; <br/>   all who despise you will bow down at your feet <br/>  and will call you the City of the Lord, <br/>   Zion of the Holy One of Israel. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_15">  <sup>15</sup>“Although you have been forsaken and hated, <br/>   with no one traveling through, <br/>  I will make you the everlasting pride <br/>   and the joy of all generations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_16">  <sup>16</sup>You will drink the milk of nations <br/>   and be nursed at royal breasts. <br/>  Then you will know that I, the Lord, am your Savior, <br/>   your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_17">  <sup>17</sup>Instead of bronze I will bring you gold, <br/>   and silver in place of iron. <br/>  Instead of wood I will bring you bronze, <br/>   and iron in place of stones. <br/>  I will make peace your governor <br/>   and well-being your ruler. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_18">  <sup>18</sup>No longer will violence be heard in your land, <br/>   nor ruin or destruction within your borders, <br/>  but you will call your walls Salvation <br/>   and your gates Praise. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_19">  <sup>19</sup>The sun will no more be your light by day, <br/>   nor will the brightness of the moon shine on you, <br/>  for the Lord will be your everlasting light, <br/>   and your God will be your glory. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_20">  <sup>20</sup>Your sun will never set again, <br/>   and your moon will wane no more; <br/>  the Lord will be your everlasting light, <br/>   and your days of sorrow will end. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_21">  <sup>21</sup>Then all your people will be righteous <br/>   and they will possess the land forever. <br/>  They are the shoot I have planted, <br/>   the work of my hands, <br/>   for the display of my splendor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_60_22">  <sup>22</sup>The least of you will become a thousand, <br/>   the smallest a mighty nation. <br/>  I am the Lord; <br/>   in its time I will do this swiftly.” <br/></span>
