---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\61.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>61</h1><h3>The Year of the Lord’s Favor </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_61_1">  <sup>1</sup>The Spirit of the Sovereign Lord is on me, <br/>   because the Lord has anointed me <br/>   to proclaim good news to the poor. <br/>  He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, <br/>   to proclaim freedom for the captives <br/>   and release from darkness for the prisoners,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint the blind">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_2">  <sup>2</sup>to proclaim the year of the Lord’s favor <br/>   and the day of vengeance of our God, <br/>  to comfort all who mourn, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_3">   <sup>3</sup>and provide for those who grieve in Zion— <br/>  to bestow on them a crown of beauty <br/>   instead of ashes, <br/>  the oil of joy <br/>   instead of mourning, <br/>  and a garment of praise <br/>   instead of a spirit of despair. <br/>  They will be called oaks of righteousness, <br/>   a planting of the Lord<br/>   for the display of his splendor. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_4">  <sup>4</sup>They will rebuild the ancient ruins <br/>   and restore the places long devastated; <br/>  they will renew the ruined cities <br/>   that have been devastated for generations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_5">  <sup>5</sup>Strangers will shepherd your flocks; <br/>   foreigners will work your fields and vineyards. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_6">  <sup>6</sup>And you will be called priests of the Lord, <br/>   you will be named ministers of our God. <br/>  You will feed on the wealth of nations, <br/>   and in their riches you will boast. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_7">  <sup>7</sup>Instead of your shame <br/>   you will receive a double portion, <br/>  and instead of disgrace <br/>   you will rejoice in your inheritance. <br/>  And so you will inherit a double portion in your land, <br/>   and everlasting joy will be yours. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_8">  <sup>8</sup>“For I, the Lord, love justice; <br/>   I hate robbery and wrongdoing. <br/>  In my faithfulness I will reward my people <br/>   and make an everlasting covenant with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_9">  <sup>9</sup>Their descendants will be known among the nations <br/>   and their offspring among the peoples. <br/>  All who see them will acknowledge <br/>   that they are a people the Lord has blessed.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_10">  <sup>10</sup>I delight greatly in the Lord; <br/>   my soul rejoices in my God. <br/>  For he has clothed me with garments of salvation <br/>   and arrayed me in a robe of his righteousness, <br/>  as a bridegroom adorns his head like a priest, <br/>   and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_61_11">  <sup>11</sup>For as the soil makes the sprout come up <br/>   and a garden causes seeds to grow, <br/>  so the Sovereign Lord will make righteousness <br/>   and praise spring up before all nations. <br/></span>
