---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Isaiah 
bookNumber: 23
audio: \Audio\NIV\es\65.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>65</h1><h3>Judgment and Salvation </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_65_1">  <sup>1</sup>“I revealed myself to those who did not ask for me; <br/>   I was found by those who did not seek me. <br/>  To a nation that did not call on my name, <br/>   I said, ‘Here am I, here am I.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_2">  <sup>2</sup>All day long I have held out my hands <br/>   to an obstinate people, <br/>  who walk in ways not good, <br/>   pursuing their own imaginations— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_3">  <sup>3</sup>a people who continually provoke me <br/>   to my very face, <br/>  offering sacrifices in gardens <br/>   and burning incense on altars of brick; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_4">  <sup>4</sup>who sit among the graves <br/>   and spend their nights keeping secret vigil; <br/>  who eat the flesh of pigs, <br/>   and whose pots hold broth of impure meat; <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_5">  <sup>5</sup>who say, ‘Keep away; don’t come near me, <br/>   for I am too sacred for you!’ <br/>  Such people are smoke in my nostrils, <br/>   a fire that keeps burning all day. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_6">  <sup>6</sup>“See, it stands written before me: <br/>   I will not keep silent but will pay back in full; <br/>   I will pay it back into their laps— <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_7">  <sup>7</sup>both your sins and the sins of your ancestors,” <br/>   says the Lord. <br/>  “Because they burned sacrifices on the mountains <br/>   and defied me on the hills, <br/>  I will measure into their laps <br/>   the full payment for their former deeds.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_8"> <sup>8</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “As when juice is still found in a cluster of grapes <br/>   and people say, ‘Don’t destroy it, <br/>   there is still a blessing in it,’ <br/>  so will I do in behalf of my servants; <br/>   I will not destroy them all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_9">  <sup>9</sup>I will bring forth descendants from Jacob, <br/>   and from Judah those who will possess my mountains; <br/>  my chosen people will inherit them, <br/>   and there will my servants live. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_10">  <sup>10</sup>Sharon will become a pasture for flocks, <br/>   and the Valley of Achor a resting place for herds, <br/>   for my people who seek me. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_11">  <sup>11</sup>“But as for you who forsake the Lord<br/>   and forget my holy mountain, <br/>  who spread a table for Fortune <br/>   and fill bowls of mixed wine for Destiny, <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_12">  <sup>12</sup>I will destine you for the sword, <br/>   and all of you will fall in the slaughter; <br/>  for I called but you did not answer, <br/>   I spoke but you did not listen. <br/>  You did evil in my sight <br/>   and chose what displeases me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_13"> <sup>13</sup>Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “My servants will eat, <br/>   but you will go hungry; <br/>  my servants will drink, <br/>   but you will go thirsty; <br/>  my servants will rejoice, <br/>   but you will be put to shame. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_14">  <sup>14</sup>My servants will sing <br/>   out of the joy of their hearts, <br/>  but you will cry out <br/>   from anguish of heart <br/>   and wail in brokenness of spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_15">  <sup>15</sup>You will leave your name <br/>   for my chosen ones to use in their curses; <br/>  the Sovereign Lord will put you to death, <br/>   but to his servants he will give another name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_16">  <sup>16</sup>Whoever invokes a blessing in the land <br/>   will do so by the one true God; <br/>  whoever takes an oath in the land <br/>   will swear by the one true God. <br/>  For the past troubles will be forgotten <br/>   and hidden from my eyes. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>New Heavens and a New Earth </h3></div>
<span class="verse es_65_17">  <sup>17</sup>“See, I will create <br/>   new heavens and a new earth. <br/>  The former things will not be remembered, <br/>   nor will they come to mind. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_18">  <sup>18</sup>But be glad and rejoice forever <br/>   in what I will create, <br/>  for I will create Jerusalem to be a delight <br/>   and its people a joy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_19">  <sup>19</sup>I will rejoice over Jerusalem <br/>   and take delight in my people; <br/>  the sound of weeping and of crying <br/>   will be heard in it no more. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_20">  <sup>20</sup>“Never again will there be in it <br/>   an infant who lives but a few days, <br/>   or an old man who does not live out his years; <br/>  the one who dies at a hundred <br/>   will be thought a mere child; <br/>  the one who fails to reach<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the sinner who reaches">⚓</a> a hundred <br/>   will be considered accursed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_21">  <sup>21</sup>They will build houses and dwell in them; <br/>   they will plant vineyards and eat their fruit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_22">  <sup>22</sup>No longer will they build houses and others live in them, <br/>   or plant and others eat. <br/>  For as the days of a tree, <br/>   so will be the days of my people; <br/>  my chosen ones will long enjoy <br/>   the work of their hands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_23">  <sup>23</sup>They will not labor in vain, <br/>   nor will they bear children doomed to misfortune; <br/>  for they will be a people blessed by the Lord, <br/>   they and their descendants with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_24">  <sup>24</sup>Before they call I will answer; <br/>   while they are still speaking I will hear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse es_65_25">  <sup>25</sup>The wolf and the lamb will feed together, <br/>   and the lion will eat straw like the ox, <br/>   and dust will be the serpent’s food. <br/>  They will neither harm nor destroy <br/>   on all my holy mountain,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">says the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
