---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Malachi 
bookNumber: 39
audio: \Audio\NIV\ma\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse ma_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>A prophecy: The word of the Lord to Israel through Malachi.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means my messenger.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Israel Doubts God’s Love </h3></div>
<span class="verse ma_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>“I have loved you,” says the Lord. <br/> “But you ask, ‘How have you loved us?’ <br/> “Was not Esau Jacob’s brother?” declares the Lord. “Yet I have loved Jacob, </span>
<span class="verse ma_1_3"><sup>3</sup>but Esau I have hated, and I have turned his hill country into a wasteland and left his inheritance to the desert jackals.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ma_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>Edom may say, “Though we have been crushed, we will rebuild the ruins.” <br/> But this is what the Lord Almighty says: “They may build, but I will demolish. They will be called the Wicked Land, a people always under the wrath of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse ma_1_5"><sup>5</sup>You will see it with your own eyes and say, ‘Great is the Lord—even beyond the borders of Israel!’ <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Breaking Covenant Through Blemished Sacrifices </h3></div>
<span class="verse ma_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>“A son honors his father, and a slave his master. If I am a father, where is the honor due me? If I am a master, where is the respect due me?” says the Lord Almighty. <br/> “It is you priests who show contempt for my name. <br/> “But you ask, ‘How have we shown contempt for your name?’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse ma_1_7"> <sup>7</sup>“By offering defiled food on my altar. <br/> “But you ask, ‘How have we defiled you?’ <br/> “By saying that the Lord’s table is contemptible. </span>
<span class="verse ma_1_8"><sup>8</sup>When you offer blind animals for sacrifice, is that not wrong? When you sacrifice lame or diseased animals, is that not wrong? Try offering them to your governor! Would he be pleased with you? Would he accept you?” says the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ma_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Now plead with God to be gracious to us. With such offerings from your hands, will he accept you?”—says the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ma_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Oh, that one of you would shut the temple doors, so that you would not light useless fires on my altar! I am not pleased with you,” says the Lord Almighty, “and I will accept no offering from your hands. </span>
<span class="verse ma_1_11"><sup>11</sup>My name will be great among the nations, from where the sun rises to where it sets. In every place incense and pure offerings will be brought to me, because my name will be great among the nations,” says the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ma_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>“But you profane it by saying, ‘The Lord’s table is defiled,’ and, ‘Its food is contemptible.’ </span>
<span class="verse ma_1_13"><sup>13</sup>And you say, ‘What a burden!’ and you sniff at it contemptuously,” says the Lord Almighty. <br/> “When you bring injured, lame or diseased animals and offer them as sacrifices, should I accept them from your hands?” says the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse ma_1_14"><sup>14</sup>“Cursed is the cheat who has an acceptable male in his flock and vows to give it, but then sacrifices a blemished animal to the Lord. For I am a great king,” says the Lord Almighty, “and my name is to be feared among the nations. <br/></span>
