---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Ephesians 
bookNumber: 49
audio: \Audio\NIV\eph\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse eph_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, <br/> To God’s holy people in Ephesus,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts do not have in Ephesus.">⚓</a> the faithful in Christ Jesus: <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Praise for Spiritual Blessings in Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_4"><sup>4</sup>For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_5"><sup>5</sup>he<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or sight in love. 5He">⚓</a> predestined us for adoption to sonship<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for adoption to sonship is a legal term referring to the full legal standing of an adopted male heir in Roman culture.">⚓</a> through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will— </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_6"><sup>6</sup>to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the One he loves. </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_7"><sup>7</sup>In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God’s grace </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_8"><sup>8</sup>that he lavished on us. With all wisdom and understanding, </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_9"><sup>9</sup>he<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or us with all wisdom and understanding. 9And he">⚓</a> made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_10"><sup>10</sup>to be put into effect when the times reach their fulfillment—to bring unity to all things in heaven and on earth under Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>In him we were also chosen,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or were made heirs">⚓</a> having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will, </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_12"><sup>12</sup>in order that we, who were the first to put our hope in Christ, might be for the praise of his glory. </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_13"><sup>13</sup>And you also were included in Christ when you heard the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation. When you believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_14"><sup>14</sup>who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God’s possession—to the praise of his glory. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Thanksgiving and Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all God’s people, </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_16"><sup>16</sup>I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_17"><sup>17</sup>I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the Spirit<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or a spirit">⚓</a> of wisdom and revelation, so that you may know him better. </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_18"><sup>18</sup>I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in his holy people, </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_19"><sup>19</sup>and his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is the same as the mighty strength </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_20"><sup>20</sup>he exerted when he raised Christ from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_21"><sup>21</sup>far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every name that is invoked, not only in the present age but also in the one to come. </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_22"><sup>22</sup>And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, </span>
<span class="verse eph_1_23"><sup>23</sup>which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. <br/></span>
