---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Ephesians 
bookNumber: 49
audio: \Audio\NIV\eph\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>God’s Marvelous Plan for the Gentiles </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles— <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_3_2"> <sup>2</sup>Surely you have heard about the administration of God’s grace that was given to me for you, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_3"><sup>3</sup>that is, the mystery made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly. </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_4"><sup>4</sup>In reading this, then, you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_5"><sup>5</sup>which was not made known to people in other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God’s holy apostles and prophets. </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_6"><sup>6</sup>This mystery is that through the gospel the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God’s grace given me through the working of his power. </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_8"><sup>8</sup>Although I am less than the least of all the Lord’s people, this grace was given me: to preach to the Gentiles the boundless riches of Christ, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_9"><sup>9</sup>and to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God, who created all things. </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_10"><sup>10</sup>His intent was that now, through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_11"><sup>11</sup>according to his eternal purpose that he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_12"><sup>12</sup>In him and through faith in him we may approach God with freedom and confidence. </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_13"><sup>13</sup>I ask you, therefore, not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you, which are your glory. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Prayer for the Ephesians </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>For this reason I kneel before the Father, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_15"><sup>15</sup>from whom every family<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek for family (patria ) is derived from the Greek for father (pater ).">⚓</a> in heaven and on earth derives its name. </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_16"><sup>16</sup>I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his Spirit in your inner being, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_17"><sup>17</sup>so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_18"><sup>18</sup>may have power, together with all the Lord’s holy people, to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_19"><sup>19</sup>and to know this love that surpasses knowledge—that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_3_20"> <sup>20</sup>Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us, </span>
<span class="verse eph_3_21"><sup>21</sup>to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, for ever and ever! Amen. <br/></span>
