---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Ephesians 
bookNumber: 49
audio: \Audio\NIV\eph\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Unity and Maturity in the Body of Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_2"><sup>2</sup>Be completely humble and gentle; be patient, bearing with one another in love. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_3"><sup>3</sup>Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_4"><sup>4</sup>There is one body and one Spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called; </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_5"><sup>5</sup>one Lord, one faith, one baptism; </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_6"><sup>6</sup>one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>But to each one of us grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_8"><sup>8</sup>This is why it<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or God">⚓</a> says: <br/>  “When he ascended on high, <br/>   he took many captives <br/>   and gave gifts to his people.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 68:18">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_4_9"><sup>9</sup>(What does “he ascended” mean except that he also descended to the lower, earthly regions<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the depths of the earth">⚓</a> ? </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_10"><sup>10</sup>He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens, in order to fill the whole universe.) </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_11"><sup>11</sup>So Christ himself gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the pastors and teachers, </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_12"><sup>12</sup>to equip his people for works of service, so that the body of Christ may be built up </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_13"><sup>13</sup>until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_4_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves, and blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of people in their deceitful scheming. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_15"><sup>15</sup>Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will grow to become in every respect the mature body of him who is the head, that is, Christ. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_16"><sup>16</sup>From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each part does its work. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Instructions for Christian Living </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>So I tell you this, and insist on it in the Lord, that you must no longer live as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their thinking. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_18"><sup>18</sup>They are darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardening of their hearts. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_19"><sup>19</sup>Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, and they are full of greed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_4_20"> <sup>20</sup>That, however, is not the way of life you learned </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_21"><sup>21</sup>when you heard about Christ and were taught in him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_22"><sup>22</sup>You were taught, with regard to your former way of life, to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires; </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_23"><sup>23</sup>to be made new in the attitude of your minds; </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_24"><sup>24</sup>and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_4_25"> <sup>25</sup>Therefore each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to your neighbor, for we are all members of one body. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_26"><sup>26</sup>“In your anger do not sin”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 4:4 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a> : Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry, </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_27"><sup>27</sup>and do not give the devil a foothold. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_28"><sup>28</sup>Anyone who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work, doing something useful with their own hands, that they may have something to share with those in need. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_4_29"> <sup>29</sup>Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_30"><sup>30</sup>And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_31"><sup>31</sup>Get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice. </span>
<span class="verse eph_4_32"><sup>32</sup>Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you. <br/></span>
