---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Ephesians 
bookNumber: 49
audio: \Audio\NIV\eph\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1></div>
<span class="verse eph_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Follow God’s example, therefore, as dearly loved children </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_2"><sup>2</sup>and walk in the way of love, just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_5_3"> <sup>3</sup>But among you there must not be even a hint of sexual immorality, or of any kind of impurity, or of greed, because these are improper for God’s holy people. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_4"><sup>4</sup>Nor should there be obscenity, foolish talk or coarse joking, which are out of place, but rather thanksgiving. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_5"><sup>5</sup>For of this you can be sure: No immoral, impure or greedy person—such a person is an idolater—has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or kingdom of the Messiah and God">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse eph_5_6"><sup>6</sup>Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of such things God’s wrath comes on those who are disobedient. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_7"><sup>7</sup>Therefore do not be partners with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_5_8"> <sup>8</sup>For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live as children of light </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_9"><sup>9</sup>(for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness and truth) </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_10"><sup>10</sup>and find out what pleases the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_11"><sup>11</sup>Have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_12"><sup>12</sup>It is shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_13"><sup>13</sup>But everything exposed by the light becomes visible—and everything that is illuminated becomes a light. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_14"><sup>14</sup>This is why it is said: <br/>  “Wake up, sleeper, <br/>   rise from the dead, <br/>   and Christ will shine on you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_5_15"> <sup>15</sup>Be very careful, then, how you live—not as unwise but as wise, </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_16"><sup>16</sup>making the most of every opportunity, because the days are evil. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_17"><sup>17</sup>Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord’s will is. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_18"><sup>18</sup>Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit, </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_19"><sup>19</sup>speaking to one another with psalms, hymns, and songs from the Spirit. Sing and make music from your heart to the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_20"><sup>20</sup>always giving thanks to God the Father for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Instructions for Christian Households </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_5_21"> <sup>21</sup>Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_5_22"> <sup>22</sup>Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as you do to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_23"><sup>23</sup>For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_24"><sup>24</sup>Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_5_25"> <sup>25</sup>Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_26"><sup>26</sup>to make her holy, cleansing<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or having cleansed">⚓</a> her by the washing with water through the word, </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_27"><sup>27</sup>and to present her to himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_28"><sup>28</sup>In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_29"><sup>29</sup>After all, no one ever hated their own body, but they feed and care for their body, just as Christ does the church— </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_30"><sup>30</sup>for we are members of his body. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_31"><sup>31</sup>“For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 2:24">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse eph_5_32"><sup>32</sup>This is a profound mystery—but I am talking about Christ and the church. </span>
<span class="verse eph_5_33"><sup>33</sup>However, each one of you also must love his wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband. <br/></span>
