---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Ephesians 
bookNumber: 49
audio: \Audio\NIV\eph\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1></div>
<span class="verse eph_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_2"><sup>2</sup>“Honor your father and mother”—which is the first commandment with a promise— </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_3"><sup>3</sup>“so that it may go well with you and that you may enjoy long life on the earth.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 5:16">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_6_4"> <sup>4</sup>Fathers,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Parents">⚓</a> do not exasperate your children; instead, bring them up in the training and instruction of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_6_5"> <sup>5</sup>Slaves, obey your earthly masters with respect and fear, and with sincerity of heart, just as you would obey Christ. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_6"><sup>6</sup>Obey them not only to win their favor when their eye is on you, but as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from your heart. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_7"><sup>7</sup>Serve wholeheartedly, as if you were serving the Lord, not people, </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_8"><sup>8</sup>because you know that the Lord will reward each one for whatever good they do, whether they are slave or free. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>And masters, treat your slaves in the same way. Do not threaten them, since you know that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and there is no favoritism with him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Armor of God </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_6_10"> <sup>10</sup>Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_11"><sup>11</sup>Put on the full armor of God, so that you can take your stand against the devil’s schemes. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_12"><sup>12</sup>For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_13"><sup>13</sup>Therefore put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_14"><sup>14</sup>Stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place, </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_15"><sup>15</sup>and with your feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_16"><sup>16</sup>In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_17"><sup>17</sup>Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_6_18"> <sup>18</sup>And pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for all the Lord’s people. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_19"><sup>19</sup>Pray also for me, that whenever I speak, words may be given me so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel, </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_20"><sup>20</sup>for which I am an ambassador in chains. Pray that I may declare it fearlessly, as I should. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Greetings </h3></div>
<span class="verse eph_6_21"> <sup>21</sup>Tychicus, the dear brother and faithful servant in the Lord, will tell you everything, so that you also may know how I am and what I am doing. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_22"><sup>22</sup>I am sending him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse eph_6_23"> <sup>23</sup>Peace to the brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family.">⚓</a> and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse eph_6_24"><sup>24</sup>Grace to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with an undying love.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Grace and immortality to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ.">⚓</a><br/></span>
