---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Ecclesiastes 
bookNumber: 21
audio: \Audio\NIV\tr\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Pleasures Are Meaningless </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>I said to myself, “Come now, I will test you with pleasure to find out what is good.” But that also proved to be meaningless. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_2"><sup>2</sup>“Laughter,” I said, “is madness. And what does pleasure accomplish?” </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_3"><sup>3</sup>I tried cheering myself with wine, and embracing folly—my mind still guiding me with wisdom. I wanted to see what was good for people to do under the heavens during the few days of their lives. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>I undertook great projects: I built houses for myself and planted vineyards. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_5"><sup>5</sup>I made gardens and parks and planted all kinds of fruit trees in them. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_6"><sup>6</sup>I made reservoirs to water groves of flourishing trees. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_7"><sup>7</sup>I bought male and female slaves and had other slaves who were born in my house. I also owned more herds and flocks than anyone in Jerusalem before me. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_8"><sup>8</sup>I amassed silver and gold for myself, and the treasure of kings and provinces. I acquired male and female singers, and a harem<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.">⚓</a> as well—the delights of a man’s heart. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_9"><sup>9</sup>I became greater by far than anyone in Jerusalem before me. In all this my wisdom stayed with me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_2_10">  <sup>10</sup>I denied myself nothing my eyes desired; <br/>   I refused my heart no pleasure. <br/>  My heart took delight in all my labor, <br/>   and this was the reward for all my toil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_2_11">  <sup>11</sup>Yet when I surveyed all that my hands had done <br/>   and what I had toiled to achieve, <br/>  everything was meaningless, a chasing after the wind; <br/>   nothing was gained under the sun. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Wisdom and Folly Are Meaningless </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_2_12">  <sup>12</sup>Then I turned my thoughts to consider wisdom, <br/>   and also madness and folly. <br/>  What more can the king’s successor do <br/>   than what has already been done? <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_2_13">  <sup>13</sup>I saw that wisdom is better than folly, <br/>   just as light is better than darkness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_2_14">  <sup>14</sup>The wise have eyes in their heads, <br/>   while the fool walks in the darkness; <br/>  but I came to realize <br/>   that the same fate overtakes them both. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then I said to myself, <br/>  “The fate of the fool will overtake me also. <br/>   What then do I gain by being wise?” <br/>  I said to myself, <br/>   “This too is meaningless.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_2_16">  <sup>16</sup>For the wise, like the fool, will not be long remembered; <br/>   the days have already come when both have been forgotten. <br/>  Like the fool, the wise too must die! <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Toil Is Meaningless </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>So I hated life, because the work that is done under the sun was grievous to me. All of it is meaningless, a chasing after the wind. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_18"><sup>18</sup>I hated all the things I had toiled for under the sun, because I must leave them to the one who comes after me. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_19"><sup>19</sup>And who knows whether that person will be wise or foolish? Yet they will have control over all the fruit of my toil into which I have poured my effort and skill under the sun. This too is meaningless. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_20"><sup>20</sup>So my heart began to despair over all my toilsome labor under the sun. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_21"><sup>21</sup>For a person may labor with wisdom, knowledge and skill, and then they must leave all they own to another who has not toiled for it. This too is meaningless and a great misfortune. </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_22"><sup>22</sup>What do people get for all the toil and anxious striving with which they labor under the sun? </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_23"><sup>23</sup>All their days their work is grief and pain; even at night their minds do not rest. This too is meaningless. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_2_24"> <sup>24</sup>A person can do nothing better than to eat and drink and find satisfaction in their own toil. This too, I see, is from the hand of God, </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_25"><sup>25</sup>for without him, who can eat or find enjoyment? </span>
<span class="verse tr_2_26"><sup>26</sup>To the person who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge and happiness, but to the sinner he gives the task of gathering and storing up wealth to hand it over to the one who pleases God. This too is meaningless, a chasing after the wind. <br/></span>
