---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Ecclesiastes 
bookNumber: 21
audio: \Audio\NIV\tr\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Oppression, Toil, Friendlessness </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Again I looked and saw all the oppression that was taking place under the sun: <br/>  I saw the tears of the oppressed— <br/>   and they have no comforter; <br/>  power was on the side of their oppressors— <br/>   and they have no comforter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_2">  <sup>2</sup>And I declared that the dead, <br/>   who had already died, <br/>  are happier than the living, <br/>   who are still alive. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_3">  <sup>3</sup>But better than both <br/>   is the one who has never been born, <br/>  who has not seen the evil <br/>   that is done under the sun. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>And I saw that all toil and all achievement spring from one person’s envy of another. This too is meaningless, a chasing after the wind. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_5">  <sup>5</sup>Fools fold their hands <br/>   and ruin themselves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_6">  <sup>6</sup>Better one handful with tranquillity <br/>   than two handfuls with toil <br/>   and chasing after the wind. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>Again I saw something meaningless under the sun: <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_8">  <sup>8</sup>There was a man all alone; <br/>   he had neither son nor brother. <br/>  There was no end to his toil, <br/>   yet his eyes were not content with his wealth. <br/>  “For whom am I toiling,” he asked, <br/>   “and why am I depriving myself of enjoyment?” <br/>  This too is meaningless— <br/>   a miserable business! <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_9">  <sup>9</sup>Two are better than one, <br/>   because they have a good return for their labor: <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_10">  <sup>10</sup>If either of them falls down, <br/>   one can help the other up. <br/>  But pity anyone who falls <br/>   and has no one to help them up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_11">  <sup>11</sup>Also, if two lie down together, they will keep warm. <br/>   But how can one keep warm alone? <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_4_12">  <sup>12</sup>Though one may be overpowered, <br/>   two can defend themselves. <br/>  A cord of three strands is not quickly broken. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Advancement Is Meaningless </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>Better a poor but wise youth than an old but foolish king who no longer knows how to heed a warning. </span>
<span class="verse tr_4_14"><sup>14</sup>The youth may have come from prison to the kingship, or he may have been born in poverty within his kingdom. </span>
<span class="verse tr_4_15"><sup>15</sup>I saw that all who lived and walked under the sun followed the youth, the king’s successor. </span>
<span class="verse tr_4_16"><sup>16</sup>There was no end to all the people who were before them. But those who came later were not pleased with the successor. This too is meaningless, a chasing after the wind. <br/></span>
