---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Ecclesiastes 
bookNumber: 21
audio: \Audio\NIV\tr\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Fulfill Your Vow to God </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Guard your steps when you go to the house of God. Go near to listen rather than to offer the sacrifice of fools, who do not know that they do wrong. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_2">  <sup>2</sup>Do not be quick with your mouth, <br/>   do not be hasty in your heart <br/>   to utter anything before God. <br/>  God is in heaven <br/>   and you are on earth, <br/>   so let your words be few. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_3">  <sup>3</sup>A dream comes when there are many cares, <br/>   and many words mark the speech of a fool. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_4"> <sup>4</sup>When you make a vow to God, do not delay to fulfill it. He has no pleasure in fools; fulfill your vow. </span>
<span class="verse tr_5_5"><sup>5</sup>It is better not to make a vow than to make one and not fulfill it. </span>
<span class="verse tr_5_6"><sup>6</sup>Do not let your mouth lead you into sin. And do not protest to the temple messenger, “My vow was a mistake.” Why should God be angry at what you say and destroy the work of your hands? </span>
<span class="verse tr_5_7"><sup>7</sup>Much dreaming and many words are meaningless. Therefore fear God. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Riches Are Meaningless </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_5_8"> <sup>8</sup>If you see the poor oppressed in a district, and justice and rights denied, do not be surprised at such things; for one official is eyed by a higher one, and over them both are others higher still. </span>
<span class="verse tr_5_9"><sup>9</sup>The increase from the land is taken by all; the king himself profits from the fields. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_10">  <sup>10</sup>Whoever loves money never has enough; <br/>   whoever loves wealth is never satisfied with their income. <br/>   This too is meaningless. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_11">  <sup>11</sup>As goods increase, <br/>   so do those who consume them. <br/>  And what benefit are they to the owners <br/>   except to feast their eyes on them? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_12">  <sup>12</sup>The sleep of a laborer is sweet, <br/>   whether they eat little or much, <br/>  but as for the rich, their abundance <br/>   permits them no sleep. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>I have seen a grievous evil under the sun: <br/>  wealth hoarded to the harm of its owners, <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_14">   <sup>14</sup>or wealth lost through some misfortune, <br/>  so that when they have children <br/>   there is nothing left for them to inherit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_15">  <sup>15</sup>Everyone comes naked from their mother’s womb, <br/>   and as everyone comes, so they depart. <br/>  They take nothing from their toil <br/>   that they can carry in their hands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_16"> <sup>16</sup>This too is a grievous evil: <br/>  As everyone comes, so they depart, <br/>   and what do they gain, <br/>   since they toil for the wind? <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_17">  <sup>17</sup>All their days they eat in darkness, <br/>   with great frustration, affliction and anger. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_5_18"> <sup>18</sup>This is what I have observed to be good: that it is appropriate for a person to eat, to drink and to find satisfaction in their toilsome labor under the sun during the few days of life God has given them—for this is their lot. </span>
<span class="verse tr_5_19"><sup>19</sup>Moreover, when God gives someone wealth and possessions, and the ability to enjoy them, to accept their lot and be happy in their toil—this is a gift of God. </span>
<span class="verse tr_5_20"><sup>20</sup>They seldom reflect on the days of their life, because God keeps them occupied with gladness of heart. <br/></span>
