---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Ecclesiastes 
bookNumber: 21
audio: \Audio\NIV\tr\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1></div>
<span class="verse tr_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>I have seen another evil under the sun, and it weighs heavily on mankind: </span>
<span class="verse tr_6_2"><sup>2</sup>God gives some people wealth, possessions and honor, so that they lack nothing their hearts desire, but God does not grant them the ability to enjoy them, and strangers enjoy them instead. This is meaningless, a grievous evil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_6_3"> <sup>3</sup>A man may have a hundred children and live many years; yet no matter how long he lives, if he cannot enjoy his prosperity and does not receive proper burial, I say that a stillborn child is better off than he. </span>
<span class="verse tr_6_4"><sup>4</sup>It comes without meaning, it departs in darkness, and in darkness its name is shrouded. </span>
<span class="verse tr_6_5"><sup>5</sup>Though it never saw the sun or knew anything, it has more rest than does that man— </span>
<span class="verse tr_6_6"><sup>6</sup>even if he lives a thousand years twice over but fails to enjoy his prosperity. Do not all go to the same place? <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_6_7">  <sup>7</sup>Everyone’s toil is for their mouth, <br/>   yet their appetite is never satisfied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_6_8">  <sup>8</sup>What advantage have the wise over fools? <br/>  What do the poor gain <br/>   by knowing how to conduct themselves before others? <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_6_9">  <sup>9</sup>Better what the eye sees <br/>   than the roving of the appetite. <br/>  This too is meaningless, <br/>   a chasing after the wind. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_6_10">  <sup>10</sup>Whatever exists has already been named, <br/>   and what humanity is has been known; <br/>  no one can contend <br/>   with someone who is stronger. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_6_11">  <sup>11</sup>The more the words, <br/>   the less the meaning, <br/>   and how does that profit anyone? <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>For who knows what is good for a person in life, during the few and meaningless days they pass through like a shadow? Who can tell them what will happen under the sun after they are gone? <br/></span>
