---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Ecclesiastes 
bookNumber: 21
audio: \Audio\NIV\tr\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1></div>
<span class="verse tr_8_1">  <sup>1</sup>Who is like the wise? <br/>   Who knows the explanation of things? <br/>  A person’s wisdom brightens their face <br/>   and changes its hard appearance. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Obey the King </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_8_2"> <sup>2</sup>Obey the king’s command, I say, because you took an oath before God. </span>
<span class="verse tr_8_3"><sup>3</sup>Do not be in a hurry to leave the king’s presence. Do not stand up for a bad cause, for he will do whatever he pleases. </span>
<span class="verse tr_8_4"><sup>4</sup>Since a king’s word is supreme, who can say to him, “What are you doing?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_8_5">  <sup>5</sup>Whoever obeys his command will come to no harm, <br/>   and the wise heart will know the proper time and procedure. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_8_6">  <sup>6</sup>For there is a proper time and procedure for every matter, <br/>   though a person may be weighed down by misery. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_8_7">  <sup>7</sup>Since no one knows the future, <br/>   who can tell someone else what is to come? <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_8_8">  <sup>8</sup>As no one has power over the wind to contain it, <br/>   so<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or over the human spirit to retain it, / and so">⚓</a> no one has power over the time of their death. <br/>  As no one is discharged in time of war, <br/>   so wickedness will not release those who practice it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>All this I saw, as I applied my mind to everything done under the sun. There is a time when a man lords it over others to his own<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to their">⚓</a> hurt. </span>
<span class="verse tr_8_10"><sup>10</sup>Then too, I saw the wicked buried—those who used to come and go from the holy place and receive praise<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint (Aquila); most Hebrew manuscripts and are forgotten">⚓</a> in the city where they did this. This too is meaningless. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_8_11"> <sup>11</sup>When the sentence for a crime is not quickly carried out, people’s hearts are filled with schemes to do wrong. </span>
<span class="verse tr_8_12"><sup>12</sup>Although a wicked person who commits a hundred crimes may live a long time, I know that it will go better with those who fear God, who are reverent before him. </span>
<span class="verse tr_8_13"><sup>13</sup>Yet because the wicked do not fear God, it will not go well with them, and their days will not lengthen like a shadow. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_8_14"> <sup>14</sup>There is something else meaningless that occurs on earth: the righteous who get what the wicked deserve, and the wicked who get what the righteous deserve. This too, I say, is meaningless. </span>
<span class="verse tr_8_15"><sup>15</sup>So I commend the enjoyment of life, because there is nothing better for a person under the sun than to eat and drink and be glad. Then joy will accompany them in their toil all the days of the life God has given them under the sun. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_8_16"> <sup>16</sup>When I applied my mind to know wisdom and to observe the labor that is done on earth—people getting no sleep day or night— </span>
<span class="verse tr_8_17"><sup>17</sup>then I saw all that God has done. No one can comprehend what goes on under the sun. Despite all their efforts to search it out, no one can discover its meaning. Even if the wise claim they know, they cannot really comprehend it. <br/></span>
