---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Ecclesiastes 
bookNumber: 21
audio: \Audio\NIV\tr\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1></div>
<span class="verse tr_12_1">  <sup>1</sup>Remember your Creator <br/>   in the days of your youth, <br/>  before the days of trouble come <br/>   and the years approach when you will say, <br/>   “I find no pleasure in them”— <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_2">  <sup>2</sup>before the sun and the light <br/>   and the moon and the stars grow dark, <br/>   and the clouds return after the rain; <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_3">  <sup>3</sup>when the keepers of the house tremble, <br/>   and the strong men stoop, <br/>  when the grinders cease because they are few, <br/>   and those looking through the windows grow dim; <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_4">  <sup>4</sup>when the doors to the street are closed <br/>   and the sound of grinding fades; <br/>  when people rise up at the sound of birds, <br/>   but all their songs grow faint; <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_5">  <sup>5</sup>when people are afraid of heights <br/>   and of dangers in the streets; <br/>  when the almond tree blossoms <br/>   and the grasshopper drags itself along <br/>   and desire no longer is stirred. <br/>  Then people go to their eternal home <br/>   and mourners go about the streets. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_6">  <sup>6</sup>Remember him—before the silver cord is severed, <br/>   and the golden bowl is broken; <br/>  before the pitcher is shattered at the spring, <br/>   and the wheel broken at the well, <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_7">  <sup>7</sup>and the dust returns to the ground it came from, <br/>   and the spirit returns to God who gave it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_8">  <sup>8</sup>“Meaningless! Meaningless!” says the Teacher.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the leader of the assembly ; also in verses 9 and 10">⚓</a><br/>   “Everything is meaningless!” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Conclusion of the Matter </h3></div>
<span class="verse tr_12_9"> <sup>9</sup>Not only was the Teacher wise, but he also imparted knowledge to the people. He pondered and searched out and set in order many proverbs. </span>
<span class="verse tr_12_10"><sup>10</sup>The Teacher searched to find just the right words, and what he wrote was upright and true. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_11"> <sup>11</sup>The words of the wise are like goads, their collected sayings like firmly embedded nails—given by one shepherd.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Shepherd">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_12"><sup>12</sup>Be warned, my son, of anything in addition to them. <br/> Of making many books there is no end, and much study wearies the body. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_13">  <sup>13</sup>Now all has been heard; <br/>   here is the conclusion of the matter: <br/>  Fear God and keep his commandments, <br/>   for this is the duty of all mankind. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tr_12_14">  <sup>14</sup>For God will bring every deed into judgment, <br/>   including every hidden thing, <br/>   whether it is good or evil. <br/></span>
