---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Mark 
bookNumber: 41
audio: \Audio\NIV\mac\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Jesus Forgives and Heals a Paralyzed Man </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>A few days later, when Jesus again entered Capernaum, the people heard that he had come home. </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_2"><sup>2</sup>They gathered in such large numbers that there was no room left, not even outside the door, and he preached the word to them. </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_3"><sup>3</sup>Some men came, bringing to him a paralyzed man, carried by four of them. </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_4"><sup>4</sup>Since they could not get him to Jesus because of the crowd, they made an opening in the roof above Jesus by digging through it and then lowered the mat the man was lying on. </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_5"><sup>5</sup>When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralyzed man, <font color="red">“Son, your sins are forgiven.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now some teachers of the law were sitting there, thinking to themselves, </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_7"><sup>7</sup>“Why does this fellow talk like that? He’s blaspheming! Who can forgive sins but God alone?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>Immediately Jesus knew in his spirit that this was what they were thinking in their hearts, and he said to them, <font color="red">“Why are you thinking these things?</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">Which is easier: to say to this paralyzed man, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up, take your mat and walk’?</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.”</font> So he said to the man, </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_11"><sup>11</sup><font color="red">“I tell you, get up, take your mat and go home.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_12"><sup>12</sup>He got up, took his mat and walked out in full view of them all. This amazed everyone and they praised God, saying, “We have never seen anything like this!” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Calls Levi and Eats With Sinners </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>Once again Jesus went out beside the lake. A large crowd came to him, and he began to teach them. </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_14"><sup>14</sup>As he walked along, he saw Levi son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax collector’s booth. <font color="red">“Follow me,”</font> Jesus told him, and Levi got up and followed him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>While Jesus was having dinner at Levi’s house, many tax collectors and sinners were eating with him and his disciples, for there were many who followed him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_16"><sup>16</sup>When the teachers of the law who were Pharisees saw him eating with the sinners and tax collectors, they asked his disciples: “Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>On hearing this, Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Questioned About Fasting </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_2_18"> <sup>18</sup>Now John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. Some people came and asked Jesus, “How is it that John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees are fasting, but yours are not?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“How can the guests of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot, so long as they have him with them.</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_20"><sup>20</sup><font color="red">But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and on that day they will fast.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_21"> <sup>21</sup><font color="red">“No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. Otherwise, the new piece will pull away from the old, making the tear worse.</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_22"><sup>22</sup><font color="red">And no one pours new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the wine will burst the skins, and both the wine and the wineskins will be ruined. No, they pour new wine into new wineskins.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Is Lord of the Sabbath </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_2_23"> <sup>23</sup>One Sabbath Jesus was going through the grainfields, and as his disciples walked along, they began to pick some heads of grain. </span>
<span class="verse mac_2_24"><sup>24</sup>The Pharisees said to him, “Look, why are they doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_25"> <sup>25</sup>He answered, <font color="red">“Have you never read what David did when he and his companions were hungry and in need?</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">In the days of Abiathar the high priest, he entered the house of God and ate the consecrated bread, which is lawful only for priests to eat. And he also gave some to his companions.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_27"> <sup>27</sup>Then he said to them, <font color="red">“The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_2_28"><sup>28</sup><font color="red">So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.”</font><br/></span>
