---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Mark 
bookNumber: 41
audio: \Audio\NIV\mac\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Jesus Restores a Demon-Possessed Man </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>They went across the lake to the region of the Gerasenes.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts Gadarenes ; other manuscripts Gergesenes">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_2"><sup>2</sup>When Jesus got out of the boat, a man with an impure spirit came from the tombs to meet him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_3"><sup>3</sup>This man lived in the tombs, and no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_4"><sup>4</sup>For he had often been chained hand and foot, but he tore the chains apart and broke the irons on his feet. No one was strong enough to subdue him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_5"><sup>5</sup>Night and day among the tombs and in the hills he would cry out and cut himself with stones. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>When he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and fell on his knees in front of him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_7"><sup>7</sup>He shouted at the top of his voice, “What do you want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? In God’s name don’t torture me!” </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_8"><sup>8</sup>For Jesus had said to him, <font color="red">“Come out of this man, you impure spirit!”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Jesus asked him, <font color="red">“What is your name?”</font><br/> “My name is Legion,” he replied, “for we are many.” </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_10"><sup>10</sup>And he begged Jesus again and again not to send them out of the area. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_11"> <sup>11</sup>A large herd of pigs was feeding on the nearby hillside. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_12"><sup>12</sup>The demons begged Jesus, “Send us among the pigs; allow us to go into them.” </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_13"><sup>13</sup>He gave them permission, and the impure spirits came out and went into the pigs. The herd, about two thousand in number, rushed down the steep bank into the lake and were drowned. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_14"> <sup>14</sup>Those tending the pigs ran off and reported this in the town and countryside, and the people went out to see what had happened. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_15"><sup>15</sup>When they came to Jesus, they saw the man who had been possessed by the legion of demons, sitting there, dressed and in his right mind; and they were afraid. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_16"><sup>16</sup>Those who had seen it told the people what had happened to the demon-possessed man—and told about the pigs as well. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_17"><sup>17</sup>Then the people began to plead with Jesus to leave their region. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_18"> <sup>18</sup>As Jesus was getting into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed begged to go with him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_19"><sup>19</sup>Jesus did not let him, but said, <font color="red">“Go home to your own people and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_20"><sup>20</sup>So the man went away and began to tell in the Decapolis<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the Ten Cities">⚓</a> how much Jesus had done for him. And all the people were amazed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Raises a Dead Girl and Heals a Sick Woman </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_5_21"> <sup>21</sup>When Jesus had again crossed over by boat to the other side of the lake, a large crowd gathered around him while he was by the lake. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_22"><sup>22</sup>Then one of the synagogue leaders, named Jairus, came, and when he saw Jesus, he fell at his feet. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_23"><sup>23</sup>He pleaded earnestly with him, “My little daughter is dying. Please come and put your hands on her so that she will be healed and live.” </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_24"><sup>24</sup>So Jesus went with him. <br/> A large crowd followed and pressed around him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_25"><sup>25</sup>And a woman was there who had been subject to bleeding for twelve years. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_26"><sup>26</sup>She had suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors and had spent all she had, yet instead of getting better she grew worse. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_27"><sup>27</sup>When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd and touched his cloak, </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_28"><sup>28</sup>because she thought, “If I just touch his clothes, I will be healed.” </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_29"><sup>29</sup>Immediately her bleeding stopped and she felt in her body that she was freed from her suffering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_30"> <sup>30</sup>At once Jesus realized that power had gone out from him. He turned around in the crowd and asked, <font color="red">“Who touched my clothes?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_31"> <sup>31</sup>“You see the people crowding against you,” his disciples answered, “and yet you can ask, <font color="red">‘Who touched me?’</font> ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_32"> <sup>32</sup>But Jesus kept looking around to see who had done it. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_33"><sup>33</sup>Then the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell at his feet and, trembling with fear, told him the whole truth. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_34"><sup>34</sup>He said to her, <font color="red">“Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be freed from your suffering.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_35"> <sup>35</sup>While Jesus was still speaking, some people came from the house of Jairus, the synagogue leader. “Your daughter is dead,” they said. “Why bother the teacher anymore?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_36"> <sup>36</sup>Overhearing<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Ignoring">⚓</a> what they said, Jesus told him, <font color="red">“Don’t be afraid; just believe.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_37"> <sup>37</sup>He did not let anyone follow him except Peter, James and John the brother of James. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_38"><sup>38</sup>When they came to the home of the synagogue leader, Jesus saw a commotion, with people crying and wailing loudly. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_39"><sup>39</sup>He went in and said to them, <font color="red">“Why all this commotion and wailing? The child is not dead but asleep.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_5_40"><sup>40</sup>But they laughed at him. <br/> After he put them all out, he took the child’s father and mother and the disciples who were with him, and went in where the child was. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_41"><sup>41</sup>He took her by the hand and said to her, <em>“Talitha koum!”</em> (which means <font color="red">“Little girl, I say to you, get up!”</font>). </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_42"><sup>42</sup>Immediately the girl stood up and began to walk around (she was twelve years old). At this they were completely astonished. </span>
<span class="verse mac_5_43"><sup>43</sup>He gave strict orders not to let anyone know about this, and told them to give her something to eat. <br/></span>
