---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Mark 
bookNumber: 41
audio: \Audio\NIV\mac\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>A Prophet Without Honor </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>Jesus left there and went to his hometown, accompanied by his disciples. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_2"><sup>2</sup>When the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were amazed. <br/> “Where did this man get these things?” they asked. “What’s this wisdom that has been given him? What are these remarkable miracles he is performing? </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_3"><sup>3</sup>Isn’t this the carpenter? Isn’t this Mary’s son and the brother of James, Joseph,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Joses , a variant of Joseph">⚓</a> Judas and Simon? Aren’t his sisters here with us?” And they took offense at him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_4"> <sup>4</sup>Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“A prophet is not without honor except in his own town, among his relatives and in his own home.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_5"><sup>5</sup>He could not do any miracles there, except lay his hands on a few sick people and heal them. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_6"><sup>6</sup>He was amazed at their lack of faith. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Sends Out the Twelve </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_6_6"> Then Jesus went around teaching from village to village. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_7"><sup>7</sup>Calling the Twelve to him, he began to send them out two by two and gave them authority over impure spirits. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>These were his instructions: <font color="red">“Take nothing for the journey except a staff—no bread, no bag, no money in your belts.</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">Wear sandals but not an extra shirt.</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you leave that town.</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_11"><sup>11</sup><font color="red">And if any place will not welcome you or listen to you, leave that place and shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>They went out and preached that people should repent. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_13"><sup>13</sup>They drove out many demons and anointed many sick people with oil and healed them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>John the Baptist Beheaded </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_6_14"> <sup>14</sup>King Herod heard about this, for Jesus’ name had become well known. Some were saying,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts He was saying">⚓</a> “John the Baptist has been raised from the dead, and that is why miraculous powers are at work in him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>Others said, “He is Elijah.” <br/> And still others claimed, “He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of long ago.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>But when Herod heard this, he said, “John, whom I beheaded, has been raised from the dead!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>For Herod himself had given orders to have John arrested, and he had him bound and put in prison. He did this because of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, whom he had married. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_18"><sup>18</sup>For John had been saying to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.” </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_19"><sup>19</sup>So Herodias nursed a grudge against John and wanted to kill him. But she was not able to, </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_20"><sup>20</sup>because Herod feared John and protected him, knowing him to be a righteous and holy man. When Herod heard John, he was greatly puzzled<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts he did many things">⚓</a> ; yet he liked to listen to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_21"> <sup>21</sup>Finally the opportune time came. On his birthday Herod gave a banquet for his high officials and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_22"><sup>22</sup>When the daughter of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts When his daughter">⚓</a> Herodias came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his dinner guests. <br/> The king said to the girl, “Ask me for anything you want, and I’ll give it to you.” </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_23"><sup>23</sup>And he promised her with an oath, “Whatever you ask I will give you, up to half my kingdom.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_24"> <sup>24</sup>She went out and said to her mother, “What shall I ask for?” <br/> “The head of John the Baptist,” she answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_25"> <sup>25</sup>At once the girl hurried in to the king with the request: “I want you to give me right now the head of John the Baptist on a platter.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_26"> <sup>26</sup>The king was greatly distressed, but because of his oaths and his dinner guests, he did not want to refuse her. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_27"><sup>27</sup>So he immediately sent an executioner with orders to bring John’s head. The man went, beheaded John in the prison, </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_28"><sup>28</sup>and brought back his head on a platter. He presented it to the girl, and she gave it to her mother. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_29"><sup>29</sup>On hearing of this, John’s disciples came and took his body and laid it in a tomb. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Feeds the Five Thousand </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_6_30"> <sup>30</sup>The apostles gathered around Jesus and reported to him all they had done and taught. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_31"><sup>31</sup>Then, because so many people were coming and going that they did not even have a chance to eat, he said to them, <font color="red">“Come with me by yourselves to a quiet place and get some rest.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_32"> <sup>32</sup>So they went away by themselves in a boat to a solitary place. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_33"><sup>33</sup>But many who saw them leaving recognized them and ran on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_34"><sup>34</sup>When Jesus landed and saw a large crowd, he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. So he began teaching them many things. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_35"> <sup>35</sup>By this time it was late in the day, so his disciples came to him. “This is a remote place,” they said, “and it’s already very late. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_36"><sup>36</sup>Send the people away so that they can go to the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_37"> <sup>37</sup>But he answered, <font color="red">“You give them something to eat.”</font><br/> They said to him, “That would take more than half a year’s wages<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek take two hundred denarii">⚓</a> ! Are we to go and spend that much on bread and give it to them to eat?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_38"> <sup>38</sup><font color="red">“How many loaves do you have?”</font> he asked. <font color="red">“Go and see.”</font><br/> When they found out, they said, “Five—and two fish.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_39"> <sup>39</sup>Then Jesus directed them to have all the people sit down in groups on the green grass. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_40"><sup>40</sup>So they sat down in groups of hundreds and fifties. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_41"><sup>41</sup>Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, he gave thanks and broke the loaves. Then he gave them to his disciples to distribute to the people. He also divided the two fish among them all. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_42"><sup>42</sup>They all ate and were satisfied, </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_43"><sup>43</sup>and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces of bread and fish. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_44"><sup>44</sup>The number of the men who had eaten was five thousand. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Walks on the Water </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_6_45"> <sup>45</sup>Immediately Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and go on ahead of him to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the crowd. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_46"><sup>46</sup>After leaving them, he went up on a mountainside to pray. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_47"> <sup>47</sup>Later that night, the boat was in the middle of the lake, and he was alone on land. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_48"><sup>48</sup>He saw the disciples straining at the oars, because the wind was against them. Shortly before dawn he went out to them, walking on the lake. He was about to pass by them, </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_49"><sup>49</sup>but when they saw him walking on the lake, they thought he was a ghost. They cried out, </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_50"><sup>50</sup>because they all saw him and were terrified. <br/> Immediately he spoke to them and said, <font color="red">“Take courage! It is I. Don’t be afraid.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_51"><sup>51</sup>Then he climbed into the boat with them, and the wind died down. They were completely amazed, </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_52"><sup>52</sup>for they had not understood about the loaves; their hearts were hardened. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_6_53"> <sup>53</sup>When they had crossed over, they landed at Gennesaret and anchored there. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_54"><sup>54</sup>As soon as they got out of the boat, people recognized Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_55"><sup>55</sup>They ran throughout that whole region and carried the sick on mats to wherever they heard he was. </span>
<span class="verse mac_6_56"><sup>56</sup>And wherever he went—into villages, towns or countryside—they placed the sick in the marketplaces. They begged him to let them touch even the edge of his cloak, and all who touched it were healed. <br/></span>
