---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Mark 
bookNumber: 41
audio: \Audio\NIV\mac\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>Jesus Before Pilate </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>Very early in the morning, the chief priests, with the elders, the teachers of the law and the whole Sanhedrin, made their plans. So they bound Jesus, led him away and handed him over to Pilate. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_2"> <sup>2</sup>“Are you the king of the Jews?” asked Pilate. <br/> <font color="red">“You have said so,”</font> Jesus replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_3"> <sup>3</sup>The chief priests accused him of many things. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_4"><sup>4</sup>So again Pilate asked him, “Aren’t you going to answer? See how many things they are accusing you of.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_5"> <sup>5</sup>But Jesus still made no reply, and Pilate was amazed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now it was the custom at the festival to release a prisoner whom the people requested. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_7"><sup>7</sup>A man called Barabbas was in prison with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the uprising. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_8"><sup>8</sup>The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?” asked Pilate, </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_10"><sup>10</sup>knowing it was out of self-interest that the chief priests had handed Jesus over to him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_11"><sup>11</sup>But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have Pilate release Barabbas instead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_12"> <sup>12</sup>“What shall I do, then, with the one you call the king of the Jews?” Pilate asked them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_13"> <sup>13</sup>“Crucify him!” they shouted. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Why? What crime has he committed?” asked Pilate. <br/> But they shouted all the louder, “Crucify him!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_15"> <sup>15</sup>Wanting to satisfy the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas to them. He had Jesus flogged, and handed him over to be crucified. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Soldiers Mock Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_15_16"> <sup>16</sup>The soldiers led Jesus away into the palace (that is, the Praetorium) and called together the whole company of soldiers. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_17"><sup>17</sup>They put a purple robe on him, then twisted together a crown of thorns and set it on him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_18"><sup>18</sup>And they began to call out to him, “Hail, king of the Jews!” </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_19"><sup>19</sup>Again and again they struck him on the head with a staff and spit on him. Falling on their knees, they paid homage to him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_20"><sup>20</sup>And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple robe and put his own clothes on him. Then they led him out to crucify him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Crucifixion of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_15_21"> <sup>21</sup>A certain man from Cyrene, Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, was passing by on his way in from the country, and they forced him to carry the cross. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_22"><sup>22</sup>They brought Jesus to the place called Golgotha (which means “the place of the skull”). </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_23"><sup>23</sup>Then they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_24"><sup>24</sup>And they crucified him. Dividing up his clothes, they cast lots to see what each would get. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_25"> <sup>25</sup>It was nine in the morning when they crucified him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_26"><sup>26</sup>The written notice of the charge against him read: the king of the jews. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_27"> <sup>27</sup>They crucified two rebels with him, one on his right and one on his left. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_28"><sup>[28]</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts include here words similar to Luke 22:37.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_29"><sup>29</sup>Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, “So! You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_30"><sup>30</sup>come down from the cross and save yourself !” </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_31"><sup>31</sup>In the same way the chief priests and the teachers of the law mocked him among themselves. “He saved others,” they said, “but he can’t save himself! </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_32"><sup>32</sup>Let this Messiah, this king of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe.” Those crucified with him also heaped insults on him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Death of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_15_33"> <sup>33</sup>At noon, darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_34"><sup>34</sup>And at three in the afternoon Jesus cried out in a loud voice, <em>“Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?”</em> (which means <font color="red">“My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”</font>).<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 22:1">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_35"> <sup>35</sup>When some of those standing near heard this, they said, “Listen, he’s calling Elijah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_36"> <sup>36</sup>Someone ran, filled a sponge with wine vinegar, put it on a staff, and offered it to Jesus to drink. “Now leave him alone. Let’s see if Elijah comes to take him down,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_37"> <sup>37</sup>With a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_38"> <sup>38</sup>The curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_39"><sup>39</sup>And when the centurion, who stood there in front of Jesus, saw how he died,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts saw that he died with such a cry">⚓</a> he said, “Surely this man was the Son of God!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_15_40"> <sup>40</sup>Some women were watching from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joseph,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Joses, a variant of Joseph ; also in verse 47">⚓</a> and Salome. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_41"><sup>41</sup>In Galilee these women had followed him and cared for his needs. Many other women who had come up with him to Jerusalem were also there. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Burial of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_15_42"> <sup>42</sup>It was Preparation Day (that is, the day before the Sabbath). So as evening approached, </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_43"><sup>43</sup>Joseph of Arimathea, a prominent member of the Council, who was himself waiting for the kingdom of God, went boldly to Pilate and asked for Jesus’ body. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_44"><sup>44</sup>Pilate was surprised to hear that he was already dead. Summoning the centurion, he asked him if Jesus had already died. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_45"><sup>45</sup>When he learned from the centurion that it was so, he gave the body to Joseph. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_46"><sup>46</sup>So Joseph bought some linen cloth, took down the body, wrapped it in the linen, and placed it in a tomb cut out of rock. Then he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb. </span>
<span class="verse mac_15_47"><sup>47</sup>Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph saw where he was laid. <br/></span>
