---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Mark 
bookNumber: 41
audio: \Audio\NIV\mac\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Jesus Has Risen </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus’ body. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_2"><sup>2</sup>Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the tomb </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_3"><sup>3</sup>and they asked each other, “Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_16_4"> <sup>4</sup>But when they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_5"><sup>5</sup>As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_16_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Don’t be alarmed,” he said. “You are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, who was crucified. He has risen! He is not here. See the place where they laid him. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_7"><sup>7</sup>But go, tell his disciples and Peter, ‘He is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_16_8"> <sup>8</sup>Trembling and bewildered, the women went out and fled from the tomb. They said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts have the following ending between verses 8 and 9, and one manuscript has it after verse 8 (omitting verses 9-20): Then they quickly reported all these instructions to those around Peter. After this, Jesus himself also sent out through them from east to west the sacred and imperishable proclamation of eternal salvation. Amen.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>[The earliest manuscripts and some other ancient witnesses do not have verses 9–20.] </h3></div>
<span class="verse mac_16_9"> <sup>9</sup>When Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had driven seven demons. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_10"><sup>10</sup>She went and told those who had been with him and who were mourning and weeping. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_11"><sup>11</sup>When they heard that Jesus was alive and that she had seen him, they did not believe it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_16_12"> <sup>12</sup>Afterward Jesus appeared in a different form to two of them while they were walking in the country. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_13"><sup>13</sup>These returned and reported it to the rest; but they did not believe them either. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_16_14"> <sup>14</sup>Later Jesus appeared to the Eleven as they were eating; he rebuked them for their lack of faith and their stubborn refusal to believe those who had seen him after he had risen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_16_15"> <sup>15</sup>He said to them, “Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_16"><sup>16</sup>Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_17"><sup>17</sup>And these signs will accompany those who believe: In my name they will drive out demons; they will speak in new tongues; </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_18"><sup>18</sup>they will pick up snakes with their hands; and when they drink deadly poison, it will not hurt them at all; they will place their hands on sick people, and they will get well.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mac_16_19"> <sup>19</sup>After the Lord Jesus had spoken to them, he was taken up into heaven and he sat at the right hand of God. </span>
<span class="verse mac_16_20"><sup>20</sup>Then the disciples went out and preached everywhere, and the Lord worked with them and confirmed his word by the signs that accompanied it. <br/></span>
