---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: John 
bookNumber: 43
audio: \Audio\NIV\gi\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Jesus Talks With a Samaritan Woman </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that he was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John— </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_2"><sup>2</sup>although in fact it was not Jesus who baptized, but his disciples. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_3"><sup>3</sup>So he left Judea and went back once more to Galilee. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>Now he had to go through Samaria. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_5"><sup>5</sup>So he came to a town in Samaria called Sychar, near the plot of ground Jacob had given to his son Joseph. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Jacob’s well was there, and Jesus, tired as he was from the journey, sat down by the well. It was about noon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>When a Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, <font color="red">“Will you give me a drink?”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_8"><sup>8</sup>(His disciples had gone into the town to buy food.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Samaritan woman said to him, “You are a Jew and I am a Samaritan woman. How can you ask me for a drink?” (For Jews do not associate with Samaritans.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or do not use dishes Samaritans have used">⚓</a> ) <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>Jesus answered her, <font color="red">“If you knew the gift of God and who it is that asks you for a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Sir,” the woman said, “you have nothing to draw with and the well is deep. Where can you get this living water? </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_12"><sup>12</sup>Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did also his sons and his livestock?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again,</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_14"><sup>14</sup><font color="red">but whoever drinks the water I give them will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give them will become in them a spring of water welling up to eternal life.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>The woman said to him, “Sir, give me this water so that I won’t get thirsty and have to keep coming here to draw water.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_16"> <sup>16</sup>He told her, <font color="red">“Go, call your husband and come back.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>“I have no husband,” she replied. <br/> Jesus said to her, <font color="red">“You are right when you say you have no husband.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_18"><sup>18</sup><font color="red">The fact is, you have had five husbands, and the man you now have is not your husband. What you have just said is quite true.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Sir,” the woman said, “I can see that you are a prophet. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_20"><sup>20</sup>Our ancestors worshiped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_21"> <sup>21</sup><font color="red">“Woman,”</font> Jesus replied, <font color="red">“believe me, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_22"><sup>22</sup><font color="red">You Samaritans worship what you do not know; we worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">Yet a time is coming and has now come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in the Spirit and in truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">God is spirit, and his worshipers must worship in the Spirit and in truth.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_25"> <sup>25</sup>The woman said, “I know that Messiah” (called Christ) “is coming. When he comes, he will explain everything to us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then Jesus declared, <font color="red">“I, the one speaking to you—I am he.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Disciples Rejoin Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_4_27"> <sup>27</sup>Just then his disciples returned and were surprised to find him talking with a woman. But no one asked, “What do you want?” or “Why are you talking with her?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then, leaving her water jar, the woman went back to the town and said to the people, </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_29"><sup>29</sup>“Come, see a man who told me everything I ever did. Could this be the Messiah?” </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_30"><sup>30</sup>They came out of the town and made their way toward him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_31"> <sup>31</sup>Meanwhile his disciples urged him, “Rabbi, eat something.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_32"> <sup>32</sup>But he said to them, <font color="red">“I have food to eat that you know nothing about.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_33"> <sup>33</sup>Then his disciples said to each other, “Could someone have brought him food?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_34"> <sup>34</sup><font color="red">“My food,”</font> said Jesus, <font color="red">“is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_35"><sup>35</sup><font color="red">Don’t you have a saying, ‘It’s still four months until harvest’? I tell you, open your eyes and look at the fields! They are ripe for harvest.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_36"><sup>36</sup><font color="red">Even now the one who reaps draws a wage and harvests a crop for eternal life, so that the sower and the reaper may be glad together.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_37"><sup>37</sup><font color="red">Thus the saying ‘One sows and another reaps’ is true.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_38"><sup>38</sup><font color="red">I sent you to reap what you have not worked for. Others have done the hard work, and you have reaped the benefits of their labor.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Many Samaritans Believe </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_4_39"> <sup>39</sup>Many of the Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman’s testimony, “He told me everything I ever did.” </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_40"><sup>40</sup>So when the Samaritans came to him, they urged him to stay with them, and he stayed two days. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_41"><sup>41</sup>And because of his words many more became believers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_42"> <sup>42</sup>They said to the woman, “We no longer believe just because of what you said; now we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this man really is the Savior of the world.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Heals an Official’s Son </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_4_43"> <sup>43</sup>After the two days he left for Galilee. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_44"><sup>44</sup>(Now Jesus himself had pointed out that a prophet has no honor in his own country.) </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_45"><sup>45</sup>When he arrived in Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him. They had seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the Passover Festival, for they also had been there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_46"> <sup>46</sup>Once more he visited Cana in Galilee, where he had turned the water into wine. And there was a certain royal official whose son lay sick at Capernaum. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_47"><sup>47</sup>When this man heard that Jesus had arrived in Galilee from Judea, he went to him and begged him to come and heal his son, who was close to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_48"> <sup>48</sup><font color="red">“Unless you people see signs and wonders,”</font> Jesus told him, <font color="red">“you will never believe.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_49"> <sup>49</sup>The royal official said, “Sir, come down before my child dies.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_50"> <sup>50</sup><font color="red">“Go,”</font> Jesus replied, <font color="red">“your son will live.”</font><br/> The man took Jesus at his word and departed. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_51"><sup>51</sup>While he was still on the way, his servants met him with the news that his boy was living. </span>
<span class="verse gi_4_52"><sup>52</sup>When he inquired as to the time when his son got better, they said to him, “Yesterday, at one in the afternoon, the fever left him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_53"> <sup>53</sup>Then the father realized that this was the exact time at which Jesus had said to him, <font color="red">“Your son will live.”</font> So he and his whole household believed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_4_54"> <sup>54</sup>This was the second sign Jesus performed after coming from Judea to Galilee. <br/></span>
