---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: John 
bookNumber: 43
audio: \Audio\NIV\gi\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Jesus Goes to the Festival of Tabernacles </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>After this, Jesus went around in Galilee. He did not want<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts not have authority">⚓</a> to go about in Judea because the Jewish leaders there were looking for a way to kill him. </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_2"><sup>2</sup>But when the Jewish Festival of Tabernacles was near, </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_3"><sup>3</sup>Jesus’ brothers said to him, “Leave Galilee and go to Judea, so that your disciples there may see the works you do. </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_4"><sup>4</sup>No one who wants to become a public figure acts in secret. Since you are doing these things, show yourself to the world.” </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_5"><sup>5</sup>For even his own brothers did not believe in him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_6"> <sup>6</sup>Therefore Jesus told them, <font color="red">“My time is not yet here; for you any time will do.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_7"><sup>7</sup><font color="red">The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify that its works are evil.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_8"><sup>8</sup><font color="red">You go to the festival. I am not</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts not yet">⚓</a><font color="red">going up to this festival, because my time has not yet fully come.”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_9"><sup>9</sup>After he had said this, he stayed in Galilee. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_10"> <sup>10</sup>However, after his brothers had left for the festival, he went also, not publicly, but in secret. </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_11"><sup>11</sup>Now at the festival the Jewish leaders were watching for Jesus and asking, “Where is he?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>Among the crowds there was widespread whispering about him. Some said, “He is a good man.” <br/> Others replied, “No, he deceives the people.” </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_13"><sup>13</sup>But no one would say anything publicly about him for fear of the leaders. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Teaches at the Festival </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_7_14"> <sup>14</sup>Not until halfway through the festival did Jesus go up to the temple courts and begin to teach. </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_15"><sup>15</sup>The Jews there were amazed and asked, “How did this man get such learning without having been taught?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_16"> <sup>16</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“My teaching is not my own. It comes from the one who sent me.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_17"><sup>17</sup><font color="red">Anyone who chooses to do the will of God will find out whether my teaching comes from God or whether I speak on my own.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_18"><sup>18</sup><font color="red">Whoever speaks on their own does so to gain personal glory, but he who seeks the glory of the one who sent him is a man of truth; there is nothing false about him.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_19"><sup>19</sup><font color="red">Has not Moses given you the law? Yet not one of you keeps the law. Why are you trying to kill me?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_20"> <sup>20</sup>“You are demon-possessed,” the crowd answered. “Who is trying to kill you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_21"> <sup>21</sup>Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“I did one miracle, and you are all amazed.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_22"><sup>22</sup><font color="red">Yet, because Moses gave you circumcision (though actually it did not come from Moses, but from the patriarchs), you circumcise a boy on the Sabbath.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">Now if a boy can be circumcised on the Sabbath so that the law of Moses may not be broken, why are you angry with me for healing a man’s whole body on the Sabbath?</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">Stop judging by mere appearances, but instead judge correctly.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Division Over Who Jesus Is </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_7_25"> <sup>25</sup>At that point some of the people of Jerusalem began to ask, “Isn’t this the man they are trying to kill? </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_26"><sup>26</sup>Here he is, speaking publicly, and they are not saying a word to him. Have the authorities really concluded that he is the Messiah? </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_27"><sup>27</sup>But we know where this man is from; when the Messiah comes, no one will know where he is from.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then Jesus, still teaching in the temple courts, cried out, <font color="red">“Yes, you know me, and you know where I am from. I am not here on my own authority, but he who sent me is true. You do not know him,</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_29"><sup>29</sup><font color="red">but I know him because I am from him and he sent me.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_30"> <sup>30</sup>At this they tried to seize him, but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_31"><sup>31</sup>Still, many in the crowd believed in him. They said, “When the Messiah comes, will he perform more signs than this man?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_32"> <sup>32</sup>The Pharisees heard the crowd whispering such things about him. Then the chief priests and the Pharisees sent temple guards to arrest him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_33"> <sup>33</sup>Jesus said, <font color="red">“I am with you for only a short time, and then I am going to the one who sent me.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_34"><sup>34</sup><font color="red">You will look for me, but you will not find me; and where I am, you cannot come.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_35"> <sup>35</sup>The Jews said to one another, “Where does this man intend to go that we cannot find him? Will he go where our people live scattered among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_36"><sup>36</sup>What did he mean when he said, <font color="red">‘You will look for me, but you will not find me,’</font> and <font color="red">‘Where I am, you cannot come’</font>?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_37"> <sup>37</sup>On the last and greatest day of the festival, Jesus stood and said in a loud voice, <font color="red">“Let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_38"><sup>38</sup><font color="red">Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said, rivers of living water will flow from within them.”</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or me. And let anyone drink 38who believes in me.” As Scripture has said, “Out of him (or them ) will flow rivers of living water.”">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_39"><sup>39</sup>By this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive. Up to that time the Spirit had not been given, since Jesus had not yet been glorified. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_40"> <sup>40</sup>On hearing his words, some of the people said, “Surely this man is the Prophet.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_41"> <sup>41</sup>Others said, “He is the Messiah.” <br/> Still others asked, “How can the Messiah come from Galilee? </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_42"><sup>42</sup>Does not Scripture say that the Messiah will come from David’s descendants and from Bethlehem, the town where David lived?” </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_43"><sup>43</sup>Thus the people were divided because of Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_44"><sup>44</sup>Some wanted to seize him, but no one laid a hand on him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Unbelief of the Jewish Leaders </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_7_45"> <sup>45</sup>Finally the temple guards went back to the chief priests and the Pharisees, who asked them, “Why didn’t you bring him in?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_46"> <sup>46</sup>“No one ever spoke the way this man does,” the guards replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_47"> <sup>47</sup>“You mean he has deceived you also?” the Pharisees retorted. </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_48"><sup>48</sup>“Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed in him? </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_49"><sup>49</sup>No! But this mob that knows nothing of the law—there is a curse on them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_50"> <sup>50</sup>Nicodemus, who had gone to Jesus earlier and who was one of their own number, asked, </span>
<span class="verse gi_7_51"><sup>51</sup>“Does our law condemn a man without first hearing him to find out what he has been doing?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_7_52"> <sup>52</sup>They replied, “Are you from Galilee, too? Look into it, and you will find that a prophet does not come out of Galilee.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>[The earliest manuscripts and many other ancient witnesses do not have John 7:53—8:11. A few manuscripts include these verses, wholly or in part, after John 7:36, John 21:25, Luke 21:38 or Luke 24:53.] </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_7_53"> <sup>53</sup>Then they all went home, <br/></span>
