---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: John 
bookNumber: 43
audio: \Audio\NIV\gi\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>The Death of Lazarus </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now a man named Lazarus was sick. He was from Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_2"><sup>2</sup>(This Mary, whose brother Lazarus now lay sick, was the same one who poured perfume on the Lord and wiped his feet with her hair.) </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_3"><sup>3</sup>So the sisters sent word to Jesus, “Lord, the one you love is sick.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>When he heard this, Jesus said, <font color="red">“This sickness will not end in death. No, it is for God’s glory so that God’s Son may be glorified through it.”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_5"><sup>5</sup>Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_6"><sup>6</sup>So when he heard that Lazarus was sick, he stayed where he was two more days, </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_7"><sup>7</sup>and then he said to his disciples, <font color="red">“Let us go back to Judea.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_8"> <sup>8</sup>“But Rabbi,” they said, “a short while ago the Jews there tried to stone you, and yet you are going back?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“Are there not twelve hours of daylight? Anyone who walks in the daytime will not stumble, for they see by this world’s light.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">It is when a person walks at night that they stumble, for they have no light.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_11"> <sup>11</sup>After he had said this, he went on to tell them, <font color="red">“Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I am going there to wake him up.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_12"> <sup>12</sup>His disciples replied, “Lord, if he sleeps, he will get better.” </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_13"><sup>13</sup>Jesus had been speaking of his death, but his disciples thought he meant natural sleep. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>So then he told them plainly, <font color="red">“Lazarus is dead,</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_15"><sup>15</sup><font color="red">and for your sake I am glad I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then Thomas (also known as Didymus<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Aramaic) and Didymus (Greek) both mean twin .">⚓</a> ) said to the rest of the disciples, “Let us also go, that we may die with him.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Comforts the Sisters of Lazarus </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_11_17"> <sup>17</sup>On his arrival, Jesus found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_18"><sup>18</sup>Now Bethany was less than two miles<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 3 kilometers">⚓</a> from Jerusalem, </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_19"><sup>19</sup>and many Jews had come to Martha and Mary to comfort them in the loss of their brother. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_20"><sup>20</sup>When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went out to meet him, but Mary stayed at home. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_21"> <sup>21</sup>“Lord,” Martha said to Jesus, “if you had been here, my brother would not have died. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_22"><sup>22</sup>But I know that even now God will give you whatever you ask.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_23"> <sup>23</sup>Jesus said to her, <font color="red">“Your brother will rise again.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_24"> <sup>24</sup>Martha answered, “I know he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_25"> <sup>25</sup>Jesus said to her, <font color="red">“I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will live, even though they die;</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">and whoever lives by believing in me will never die. Do you believe this?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_27"> <sup>27</sup>“Yes, Lord,” she replied, “I believe that you are the Messiah, the Son of God, who is to come into the world.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_28"> <sup>28</sup>After she had said this, she went back and called her sister Mary aside. “The Teacher is here,” she said, “and is asking for you.” </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_29"><sup>29</sup>When Mary heard this, she got up quickly and went to him. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_30"><sup>30</sup>Now Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was still at the place where Martha had met him. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_31"><sup>31</sup>When the Jews who had been with Mary in the house, comforting her, noticed how quickly she got up and went out, they followed her, supposing she was going to the tomb to mourn there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_32"> <sup>32</sup>When Mary reached the place where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet and said, “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_33"> <sup>33</sup>When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come along with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit and troubled. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_34"><sup>34</sup><font color="red">“Where have you laid him?”</font> he asked. <br/> “Come and see, Lord,” they replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_35"> <sup>35</sup>Jesus wept. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_36"> <sup>36</sup>Then the Jews said, “See how he loved him!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_37"> <sup>37</sup>But some of them said, “Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man have kept this man from dying?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Raises Lazarus From the Dead </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_11_38"> <sup>38</sup>Jesus, once more deeply moved, came to the tomb. It was a cave with a stone laid across the entrance. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_39"><sup>39</sup><font color="red">“Take away the stone,”</font> he said. <br/> “But, Lord,” said Martha, the sister of the dead man, “by this time there is a bad odor, for he has been there four days.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_40"> <sup>40</sup>Then Jesus said, <font color="red">“Did I not tell you that if you believe, you will see the glory of God?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_41"> <sup>41</sup>So they took away the stone. Then Jesus looked up and said, <font color="red">“Father, I thank you that you have heard me.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_42"><sup>42</sup><font color="red">I knew that you always hear me, but I said this for the benefit of the people standing here, that they may believe that you sent me.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_43"> <sup>43</sup>When he had said this, Jesus called in a loud voice, <font color="red">“Lazarus, come out!”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_44"><sup>44</sup>The dead man came out, his hands and feet wrapped with strips of linen, and a cloth around his face. <br/> Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“Take off the grave clothes and let him go.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Plot to Kill Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_11_45"> <sup>45</sup>Therefore many of the Jews who had come to visit Mary, and had seen what Jesus did, believed in him. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_46"><sup>46</sup>But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_47"><sup>47</sup>Then the chief priests and the Pharisees called a meeting of the Sanhedrin. <br/> “What are we accomplishing?” they asked. “Here is this man performing many signs. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_48"><sup>48</sup>If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and then the Romans will come and take away both our temple and our nation.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_49"> <sup>49</sup>Then one of them, named Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, spoke up, “You know nothing at all! </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_50"><sup>50</sup>You do not realize that it is better for you that one man die for the people than that the whole nation perish.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_51"> <sup>51</sup>He did not say this on his own, but as high priest that year he prophesied that Jesus would die for the Jewish nation, </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_52"><sup>52</sup>and not only for that nation but also for the scattered children of God, to bring them together and make them one. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_53"><sup>53</sup>So from that day on they plotted to take his life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_54"> <sup>54</sup>Therefore Jesus no longer moved about publicly among the people of Judea. Instead he withdrew to a region near the wilderness, to a village called Ephraim, where he stayed with his disciples. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_11_55"> <sup>55</sup>When it was almost time for the Jewish Passover, many went up from the country to Jerusalem for their ceremonial cleansing before the Passover. </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_56"><sup>56</sup>They kept looking for Jesus, and as they stood in the temple courts they asked one another, “What do you think? Isn’t he coming to the festival at all?” </span>
<span class="verse gi_11_57"><sup>57</sup>But the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that anyone who found out where Jesus was should report it so that they might arrest him. <br/></span>
