---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: John 
bookNumber: 43
audio: \Audio\NIV\gi\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>The Work of the Holy Spirit </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_16_1"> <sup>1</sup><font color="red">“All this I have told you so that you will not fall away.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_2"><sup>2</sup><font color="red">They will put you out of the synagogue; in fact, the time is coming when anyone who kills you will think they are offering a service to God.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_3"><sup>3</sup><font color="red">They will do such things because they have not known the Father or me.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_4"><sup>4</sup><font color="red">I have told you this, so that when their time comes you will remember that I warned you about them. I did not tell you this from the beginning because I was with you,</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">but now I am going to him who sent me. None of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">Rather, you are filled with grief because I have said these things.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_7"><sup>7</sup><font color="red">But very truly I tell you, it is for your good that I am going away. Unless I go away, the Advocate will not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_8"><sup>8</sup><font color="red">When he comes, he will prove the world to be in the wrong about sin and righteousness and judgment:</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">about sin, because people do not believe in me;</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">about righteousness, because I am going to the Father, where you can see me no longer;</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_11"><sup>11</sup><font color="red">and about judgment, because the prince of this world now stands condemned.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_12"> <sup>12</sup><font color="red">“I have much more to say to you, more than you can now bear.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all the truth. He will not speak on his own; he will speak only what he hears, and he will tell you what is yet to come.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_14"><sup>14</sup><font color="red">He will glorify me because it is from me that he will receive what he will make known to you.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_15"><sup>15</sup><font color="red">All that belongs to the Father is mine. That is why I said the Spirit will receive from me what he will make known to you.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Disciples’ Grief Will Turn to Joy </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_16_16"> <sup>16</sup>Jesus went on to say, <font color="red">“In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_17"> <sup>17</sup>At this, some of his disciples said to one another, “What does he mean by saying, <font color="red">‘In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me,’</font> and <font color="red">‘Because I am going to the Father’</font>?” </span>
<span class="verse gi_16_18"><sup>18</sup>They kept asking, “What does he mean by <font color="red">‘a little while’</font>? We don’t understand what he is saying.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_19"> <sup>19</sup>Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about this, so he said to them, <font color="red">“Are you asking one another what I meant when I said, ‘In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me’?</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_20"><sup>20</sup><font color="red">Very truly I tell you, you will weep and mourn while the world rejoices. You will grieve, but your grief will turn to joy.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_21"><sup>21</sup><font color="red">A woman giving birth to a child has pain because her time has come; but when her baby is born she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_22"><sup>22</sup><font color="red">So with you: Now is your time of grief, but I will see you again and you will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">In that day you will no longer ask me anything. Very truly I tell you, my Father will give you whatever you ask in my name.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">Until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask and you will receive, and your joy will be complete.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_25"> <sup>25</sup><font color="red">“Though I have been speaking figuratively, a time is coming when I will no longer use this kind of language but will tell you plainly about my Father.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">In that day you will ask in my name. I am not saying that I will ask the Father on your behalf.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_27"><sup>27</sup><font color="red">No, the Father himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_28"><sup>28</sup><font color="red">I came from the Father and entered the world; now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_29"> <sup>29</sup>Then Jesus’ disciples said, “Now you are speaking clearly and without figures of speech. </span>
<span class="verse gi_16_30"><sup>30</sup>Now we can see that you know all things and that you do not even need to have anyone ask you questions. This makes us believe that you came from God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_31"> <sup>31</sup><font color="red">“Do you now believe?”</font> Jesus replied. </span>
<span class="verse gi_16_32"><sup>32</sup><font color="red">“A time is coming and in fact has come when you will be scattered, each to your own home. You will leave me all alone. Yet I am not alone, for my Father is with me.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_16_33"> <sup>33</sup><font color="red">“I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world.”</font><br/></span>
