---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: John 
bookNumber: 43
audio: \Audio\NIV\gi\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>Jesus Arrested </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>When he had finished praying, Jesus left with his disciples and crossed the Kidron Valley. On the other side there was a garden, and he and his disciples went into it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_2"> <sup>2</sup>Now Judas, who betrayed him, knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with his disciples. </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_3"><sup>3</sup>So Judas came to the garden, guiding a detachment of soldiers and some officials from the chief priests and the Pharisees. They were carrying torches, lanterns and weapons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_4"> <sup>4</sup>Jesus, knowing all that was going to happen to him, went out and asked them, <font color="red">“Who is it you want?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_5"> <sup>5</sup>“Jesus of Nazareth,” they replied. <br/> <font color="red">“I am he,”</font> Jesus said. (And Judas the traitor was standing there with them.) </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_6"><sup>6</sup>When Jesus said, <font color="red">“I am he,”</font> they drew back and fell to the ground. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_7"> <sup>7</sup>Again he asked them, <font color="red">“Who is it you want?”</font><br/> “Jesus of Nazareth,” they said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_8"> <sup>8</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“I told you that I am he. If you are looking for me, then let these men go.”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_9"><sup>9</sup>This happened so that the words he had spoken would be fulfilled: <font color="red">“I have not lost one of those you gave me.”</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="John 6:39">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck the high priest’s servant, cutting off his right ear. (The servant’s name was Malchus.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_11"> <sup>11</sup>Jesus commanded Peter, <font color="red">“Put your sword away! Shall I not drink the cup the Father has given me?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then the detachment of soldiers with its commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus. They bound him </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_13"><sup>13</sup>and brought him first to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest that year. </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_14"><sup>14</sup>Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jewish leaders that it would be good if one man died for the people. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Peter’s First Denial </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_18_15"> <sup>15</sup>Simon Peter and another disciple were following Jesus. Because this disciple was known to the high priest, he went with Jesus into the high priest’s courtyard, </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_16"><sup>16</sup>but Peter had to wait outside at the door. The other disciple, who was known to the high priest, came back, spoke to the servant girl on duty there and brought Peter in. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_17"> <sup>17</sup>“You aren’t one of this man’s disciples too, are you?” she asked Peter. <br/> He replied, “I am not.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_18"> <sup>18</sup>It was cold, and the servants and officials stood around a fire they had made to keep warm. Peter also was standing with them, warming himself. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The High Priest Questions Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_18_19"> <sup>19</sup>Meanwhile, the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_20"> <sup>20</sup><font color="red">“I have spoken openly to the world,”</font> Jesus replied. <font color="red">“I always taught in synagogues or at the temple, where all the Jews come together. I said nothing in secret.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_21"><sup>21</sup><font color="red">Why question me? Ask those who heard me. Surely they know what I said.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_22"> <sup>22</sup>When Jesus said this, one of the officials nearby slapped him in the face. “Is this the way you answer the high priest?” he demanded. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_23"> <sup>23</sup><font color="red">“If I said something wrong,”</font> Jesus replied, <font color="red">“testify as to what is wrong. But if I spoke the truth, why did you strike me?”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_24"><sup>24</sup>Then Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Peter’s Second and Third Denials </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_18_25"> <sup>25</sup>Meanwhile, Simon Peter was still standing there warming himself. So they asked him, “You aren’t one of his disciples too, are you?” <br/> He denied it, saying, “I am not.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_26"> <sup>26</sup>One of the high priest’s servants, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, challenged him, “Didn’t I see you with him in the garden?” </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_27"><sup>27</sup>Again Peter denied it, and at that moment a rooster began to crow. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Before Pilate </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_18_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then the Jewish leaders took Jesus from Caiaphas to the palace of the Roman governor. By now it was early morning, and to avoid ceremonial uncleanness they did not enter the palace, because they wanted to be able to eat the Passover. </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_29"><sup>29</sup>So Pilate came out to them and asked, “What charges are you bringing against this man?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_30"> <sup>30</sup>“If he were not a criminal,” they replied, “we would not have handed him over to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_31"> <sup>31</sup>Pilate said, “Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law.” <br/> “But we have no right to execute anyone,” they objected. </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_32"><sup>32</sup>This took place to fulfill what Jesus had said about the kind of death he was going to die. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_33"> <sup>33</sup>Pilate then went back inside the palace, summoned Jesus and asked him, “Are you the king of the Jews?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_34"> <sup>34</sup><font color="red">“Is that your own idea,”</font> Jesus asked, <font color="red">“or did others talk to you about me?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_35"> <sup>35</sup>“Am I a Jew?” Pilate replied. “Your own people and chief priests handed you over to me. What is it you have done?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_36"> <sup>36</sup>Jesus said, <font color="red">“My kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my servants would fight to prevent my arrest by the Jewish leaders. But now my kingdom is from another place.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_37"> <sup>37</sup>“You are a king, then!” said Pilate. <br/> Jesus answered, <font color="red">“You say that I am a king. In fact, the reason I was born and came into the world is to testify to the truth. Everyone on the side of truth listens to me.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_38"> <sup>38</sup>“What is truth?” retorted Pilate. With this he went out again to the Jews gathered there and said, “I find no basis for a charge against him. </span>
<span class="verse gi_18_39"><sup>39</sup>But it is your custom for me to release to you one prisoner at the time of the Passover. Do you want me to release ‘the king of the Jews’?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_18_40"> <sup>40</sup>They shouted back, “No, not him! Give us Barabbas!” Now Barabbas had taken part in an uprising. <br/></span>
