---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: John 
bookNumber: 43
audio: \Audio\NIV\gi\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>Jesus Sentenced to Be Crucified </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Pilate took Jesus and had him flogged. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_2"><sup>2</sup>The soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head. They clothed him in a purple robe </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_3"><sup>3</sup>and went up to him again and again, saying, “Hail, king of the Jews!” And they slapped him in the face. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_4"> <sup>4</sup>Once more Pilate came out and said to the Jews gathered there, “Look, I am bringing him out to you to let you know that I find no basis for a charge against him.” </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_5"><sup>5</sup>When Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, Pilate said to them, “Here is the man!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_6"> <sup>6</sup>As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him, they shouted, “Crucify! Crucify!” <br/> But Pilate answered, “You take him and crucify him. As for me, I find no basis for a charge against him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_7"> <sup>7</sup>The Jewish leaders insisted, “We have a law, and according to that law he must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_8"> <sup>8</sup>When Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid, </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_9"><sup>9</sup>and he went back inside the palace. “Where do you come from?” he asked Jesus, but Jesus gave him no answer. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_10"><sup>10</sup>“Do you refuse to speak to me?” Pilate said. “Don’t you realize I have power either to free you or to crucify you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_11"> <sup>11</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above. Therefore the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_12"> <sup>12</sup>From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free, but the Jewish leaders kept shouting, “If you let this man go, you are no friend of Caesar. Anyone who claims to be a king opposes Caesar.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_13"> <sup>13</sup>When Pilate heard this, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judge’s seat at a place known as the Stone Pavement (which in Aramaic is Gabbatha). </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_14"><sup>14</sup>It was the day of Preparation of the Passover; it was about noon. <br/> “Here is your king,” Pilate said to the Jews. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_15"> <sup>15</sup>But they shouted, “Take him away! Take him away! Crucify him!” <br/> “Shall I crucify your king?” Pilate asked. <br/> “We have no king but Caesar,” the chief priests answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_16"> <sup>16</sup>Finally Pilate handed him over to them to be crucified. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Crucifixion of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_19_16"> So the soldiers took charge of Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_17"><sup>17</sup>Carrying his own cross, he went out to the place of the Skull (which in Aramaic is called Golgotha). </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_18"><sup>18</sup>There they crucified him, and with him two others—one on each side and Jesus in the middle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_19"> <sup>19</sup>Pilate had a notice prepared and fastened to the cross. It read: jesus of nazareth, the king of the jews. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_20"><sup>20</sup>Many of the Jews read this sign, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and the sign was written in Aramaic, Latin and Greek. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_21"><sup>21</sup>The chief priests of the Jews protested to Pilate, “Do not write ‘The King of the Jews,’ but that this man claimed to be king of the Jews.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_22"> <sup>22</sup>Pilate answered, “What I have written, I have written.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_23"> <sup>23</sup>When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. This garment was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_24"> <sup>24</sup>“Let’s not tear it,” they said to one another. “Let’s decide by lot who will get it.” <br/> This happened that the scripture might be fulfilled that said, <br/>  “They divided my clothes among them <br/>   and cast lots for my garment.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 22:18">⚓</a><br/>So this is what the soldiers did. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_25"> <sup>25</sup>Near the cross of Jesus stood his mother, his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_26"><sup>26</sup>When Jesus saw his mother there, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to her, <font color="red">“Woman,</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek for Woman does not denote any disrespect.">⚓</a><font color="red">here is your son,”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_27"><sup>27</sup>and to the disciple, <font color="red">“Here is your mother.”</font> From that time on, this disciple took her into his home. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Death of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_19_28"> <sup>28</sup>Later, knowing that everything had now been finished, and so that Scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, <font color="red">“I am thirsty.”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_29"><sup>29</sup>A jar of wine vinegar was there, so they soaked a sponge in it, put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant, and lifted it to Jesus’ lips. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_30"><sup>30</sup>When he had received the drink, Jesus said, <font color="red">“It is finished.”</font> With that, he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_31"> <sup>31</sup>Now it was the day of Preparation, and the next day was to be a special Sabbath. Because the Jewish leaders did not want the bodies left on the crosses during the Sabbath, they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_32"><sup>32</sup>The soldiers therefore came and broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus, and then those of the other. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_33"><sup>33</sup>But when they came to Jesus and found that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_34"><sup>34</sup>Instead, one of the soldiers pierced Jesus’ side with a spear, bringing a sudden flow of blood and water. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_35"><sup>35</sup>The man who saw it has given testimony, and his testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth, and he testifies so that you also may believe. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_36"><sup>36</sup>These things happened so that the scripture would be fulfilled: “Not one of his bones will be broken,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 12:46; Num. 9:12; Psalm 34:20">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_37"><sup>37</sup>and, as another scripture says, “They will look on the one they have pierced.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Zech. 12:10">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Burial of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_19_38"> <sup>38</sup>Later, Joseph of Arimathea asked Pilate for the body of Jesus. Now Joseph was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly because he feared the Jewish leaders. With Pilate’s permission, he came and took the body away. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_39"><sup>39</sup>He was accompanied by Nicodemus, the man who earlier had visited Jesus at night. Nicodemus brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about seventy-five pounds.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 34 kilograms">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse gi_19_40"><sup>40</sup>Taking Jesus’ body, the two of them wrapped it, with the spices, in strips of linen. This was in accordance with Jewish burial customs. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_41"><sup>41</sup>At the place where Jesus was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever been laid. </span>
<span class="verse gi_19_42"><sup>42</sup>Because it was the Jewish day of Preparation and since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there. <br/></span>
