---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: John 
bookNumber: 43
audio: \Audio\NIV\gi\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>The Empty Tomb </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>Early on the first day of the week, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the entrance. </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_2"><sup>2</sup>So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved, and said, “They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don’t know where they have put him!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_3"> <sup>3</sup>So Peter and the other disciple started for the tomb. </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_4"><sup>4</sup>Both were running, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_5"><sup>5</sup>He bent over and looked in at the strips of linen lying there but did not go in. </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_6"><sup>6</sup>Then Simon Peter came along behind him and went straight into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there, </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_7"><sup>7</sup>as well as the cloth that had been wrapped around Jesus’ head. The cloth was still lying in its place, separate from the linen. </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_8"><sup>8</sup>Finally the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went inside. He saw and believed. </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_9"><sup>9</sup>(They still did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead.) </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_10"><sup>10</sup>Then the disciples went back to where they were staying. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Appears to Mary Magdalene </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_20_11"> <sup>11</sup>Now Mary stood outside the tomb crying. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_12"><sup>12</sup>and saw two angels in white, seated where Jesus’ body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_13"> <sup>13</sup>They asked her, “Woman, why are you crying?” <br/> “They have taken my Lord away,” she said, “and I don’t know where they have put him.” </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_14"><sup>14</sup>At this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not realize that it was Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_15"> <sup>15</sup>He asked her, <font color="red">“Woman, why are you crying? Who is it you are looking for?”</font><br/> Thinking he was the gardener, she said, “Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have put him, and I will get him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_16"> <sup>16</sup>Jesus said to her, <font color="red">“Mary.”</font><br/> She turned toward him and cried out in Aramaic, “Rabboni!” (which means “Teacher”). <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_17"> <sup>17</sup>Jesus said, <font color="red">“Do not hold on to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. Go instead to my brothers and tell them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.’ ”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_18"> <sup>18</sup>Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news: “I have seen the Lord!” And she told them that he had said these things to her. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Appears to His Disciples </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_20_19"> <sup>19</sup>On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together, with the doors locked for fear of the Jewish leaders, Jesus came and stood among them and said, <font color="red">“Peace be with you!”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_20"><sup>20</sup>After he said this, he showed them his hands and side. The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_21"> <sup>21</sup>Again Jesus said, <font color="red">“Peace be with you! As the Father has sent me, I am sending you.”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_22"><sup>22</sup>And with that he breathed on them and said, <font color="red">“Receive the Holy Spirit.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">If you forgive anyone’s sins, their sins are forgiven; if you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Appears to Thomas </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_20_24"> <sup>24</sup>Now Thomas (also known as Didymus<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Aramaic) and Didymus (Greek) both mean twin .">⚓</a> ), one of the Twelve, was not with the disciples when Jesus came. </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_25"><sup>25</sup>So the other disciples told him, “We have seen the Lord!” <br/> But he said to them, “Unless I see the nail marks in his hands and put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_26"> <sup>26</sup>A week later his disciples were in the house again, and Thomas was with them. Though the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, <font color="red">“Peace be with you!”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_27"><sup>27</sup>Then he said to Thomas, <font color="red">“Put your finger here; see my hands. Reach out your hand and put it into my side. Stop doubting and believe.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_28"> <sup>28</sup>Thomas said to him, “My Lord and my God!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_20_29"> <sup>29</sup>Then Jesus told him, <font color="red">“Because you have seen me, you have believed; blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Purpose of John’s Gospel </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_20_30"> <sup>30</sup>Jesus performed many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not recorded in this book. </span>
<span class="verse gi_20_31"><sup>31</sup>But these are written that you may believe<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or may continue to believe">⚓</a> that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. <br/></span>
