---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: John 
bookNumber: 43
audio: \Audio\NIV\gi\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>Jesus and the Miraculous Catch of Fish </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>Afterward Jesus appeared again to his disciples, by the Sea of Galilee.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Tiberias">⚓</a> It happened this way: </span>
<span class="verse gi_21_2"><sup>2</sup>Simon Peter, Thomas (also known as Didymus<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="(Aramaic) and Didymus (Greek) both mean twin .">⚓</a> ), Nathanael from Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other disciples were together. </span>
<span class="verse gi_21_3"><sup>3</sup>“I’m going out to fish,” Simon Peter told them, and they said, “We’ll go with you.” So they went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_4"> <sup>4</sup>Early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_5"> <sup>5</sup>He called out to them, <font color="red">“Friends, haven’t you any fish?”</font><br/> “No,” they answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_6"> <sup>6</sup>He said, <font color="red">“Throw your net on the right side of the boat and you will find some.”</font> When they did, they were unable to haul the net in because of the large number of fish. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord!” As soon as Simon Peter heard him say, “It is the Lord,” he wrapped his outer garment around him (for he had taken it off) and jumped into the water. </span>
<span class="verse gi_21_8"><sup>8</sup>The other disciples followed in the boat, towing the net full of fish, for they were not far from shore, about a hundred yards.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 90 meters">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_9"><sup>9</sup>When they landed, they saw a fire of burning coals there with fish on it, and some bread. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_10"> <sup>10</sup>Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“Bring some of the fish you have just caught.”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_11"><sup>11</sup>So Simon Peter climbed back into the boat and dragged the net ashore. It was full of large fish, 153, but even with so many the net was not torn. </span>
<span class="verse gi_21_12"><sup>12</sup>Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“Come and have breakfast.”</font> None of the disciples dared ask him, “Who are you?” They knew it was the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gi_21_13"><sup>13</sup>Jesus came, took the bread and gave it to them, and did the same with the fish. </span>
<span class="verse gi_21_14"><sup>14</sup>This was now the third time Jesus appeared to his disciples after he was raised from the dead. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Reinstates Peter </h3></div>
<span class="verse gi_21_15"> <sup>15</sup>When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, <font color="red">“Simon son of John, do you love me more than these?”</font><br/> “Yes, Lord,” he said, “you know that I love you.” <br/> Jesus said, <font color="red">“Feed my lambs.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_16"> <sup>16</sup>Again Jesus said, <font color="red">“Simon son of John, do you love me?”</font><br/> He answered, “Yes, Lord, you know that I love you.” <br/> Jesus said, <font color="red">“Take care of my sheep.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_17"> <sup>17</sup>The third time he said to him, <font color="red">“Simon son of John, do you love me?”</font><br/> Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, <font color="red">“Do you love me?”</font> He said, “Lord, you know all things; you know that I love you.” <br/> Jesus said, <font color="red">“Feed my sheep.</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_18"><sup>18</sup><font color="red">Very truly I tell you, when you were younger you dressed yourself and went where you wanted; but when you are old you will stretch out your hands, and someone else will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go.”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_19"><sup>19</sup>Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God. Then he said to him, <font color="red">“Follow me!”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_20"> <sup>20</sup>Peter turned and saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them. (This was the one who had leaned back against Jesus at the supper and had said, “Lord, who is going to betray you?”) </span>
<span class="verse gi_21_21"><sup>21</sup>When Peter saw him, he asked, “Lord, what about him?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_22"> <sup>22</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you? You must follow me.”</font></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_23"><sup>23</sup>Because of this, the rumor spread among the believers that this disciple would not die. But Jesus did not say that he would not die; he only said, <font color="red">“If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_24"> <sup>24</sup>This is the disciple who testifies to these things and who wrote them down. We know that his testimony is true. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gi_21_25"> <sup>25</sup>Jesus did many other things as well. If every one of them were written down, I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written. <br/></span>
