---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>David’s Charge to Solomon </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the time drew near for David to die, he gave a charge to Solomon his son. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_2"> <sup>2</sup>“I am about to go the way of all the earth,” he said. “So be strong, act like a man, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_3"><sup>3</sup>and observe what the Lord your God requires: Walk in obedience to him, and keep his decrees and commands, his laws and regulations, as written in the Law of Moses. Do this so that you may prosper in all you do and wherever you go </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_4"><sup>4</sup>and that the Lord may keep his promise to me: ‘If your descendants watch how they live, and if they walk faithfully before me with all their heart and soul, you will never fail to have a successor on the throne of Israel.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>“Now you yourself know what Joab son of Zeruiah did to me—what he did to the two commanders of Israel’s armies, Abner son of Ner and Amasa son of Jether. He killed them, shedding their blood in peacetime as if in battle, and with that blood he stained the belt around his waist and the sandals on his feet. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_6"><sup>6</sup>Deal with him according to your wisdom, but do not let his gray head go down to the grave in peace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>“But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai of Gilead and let them be among those who eat at your table. They stood by me when I fled from your brother Absalom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>“And remember, you have with you Shimei son of Gera, the Benjamite from Bahurim, who called down bitter curses on me the day I went to Mahanaim. When he came down to meet me at the Jordan, I swore to him by the Lord: ‘I will not put you to death by the sword.’ </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_9"><sup>9</sup>But now, do not consider him innocent. You are a man of wisdom; you will know what to do to him. Bring his gray head down to the grave in blood.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then David rested with his ancestors and was buried in the City of David. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_11"><sup>11</sup>He had reigned forty years over Israel—seven years in Hebron and thirty-three in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_12"><sup>12</sup>So Solomon sat on the throne of his father David, and his rule was firmly established. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon’s Throne Established </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>Now Adonijah, the son of Haggith, went to Bathsheba, Solomon’s mother. Bathsheba asked him, “Do you come peacefully?” <br/> He answered, “Yes, peacefully.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_14"><sup>14</sup>Then he added, “I have something to say to you.” <br/> “You may say it,” she replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>“As you know,” he said, “the kingdom was mine. All Israel looked to me as their king. But things changed, and the kingdom has gone to my brother; for it has come to him from the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_16"><sup>16</sup>Now I have one request to make of you. Do not refuse me.” <br/> “You may make it,” she said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>So he continued, “Please ask King Solomon—he will not refuse you—to give me Abishag the Shunammite as my wife.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Very well,” Bathsheba replied, “I will speak to the king for you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>When Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak to him for Adonijah, the king stood up to meet her, bowed down to her and sat down on his throne. He had a throne brought for the king’s mother, and she sat down at his right hand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>“I have one small request to make of you,” she said. “Do not refuse me.” <br/> The king replied, “Make it, my mother; I will not refuse you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_21"> <sup>21</sup>So she said, “Let Abishag the Shunammite be given in marriage to your brother Adonijah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_22"> <sup>22</sup>King Solomon answered his mother, “Why do you request Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? You might as well request the kingdom for him—after all, he is my older brother—yes, for him and for Abiathar the priest and Joab son of Zeruiah!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_23"> <sup>23</sup>Then King Solomon swore by the Lord: “May God deal with me, be it ever so severely, if Adonijah does not pay with his life for this request! </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_24"><sup>24</sup>And now, as surely as the Lord lives—he who has established me securely on the throne of my father David and has founded a dynasty for me as he promised—Adonijah shall be put to death today!” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_25"><sup>25</sup>So King Solomon gave orders to Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and he struck down Adonijah and he died. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_26"> <sup>26</sup>To Abiathar the priest the king said, “Go back to your fields in Anathoth. You deserve to die, but I will not put you to death now, because you carried the ark of the Sovereign Lord before my father David and shared all my father’s hardships.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_27"><sup>27</sup>So Solomon removed Abiathar from the priesthood of the Lord, fulfilling the word the Lord had spoken at Shiloh about the house of Eli. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_28"> <sup>28</sup>When the news reached Joab, who had conspired with Adonijah though not with Absalom, he fled to the tent of the Lord and took hold of the horns of the altar. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_29"><sup>29</sup>King Solomon was told that Joab had fled to the tent of the Lord and was beside the altar. Then Solomon ordered Benaiah son of Jehoiada, “Go, strike him down!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_30"> <sup>30</sup>So Benaiah entered the tent of the Lord and said to Joab, “The king says, ‘Come out!’ ” <br/> But he answered, “No, I will die here.” <br/> Benaiah reported to the king, “This is how Joab answered me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_31"> <sup>31</sup>Then the king commanded Benaiah, “Do as he says. Strike him down and bury him, and so clear me and my whole family of the guilt of the innocent blood that Joab shed. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_32"><sup>32</sup>The Lord will repay him for the blood he shed, because without my father David knowing it he attacked two men and killed them with the sword. Both of them—Abner son of Ner, commander of Israel’s army, and Amasa son of Jether, commander of Judah’s army—were better men and more upright than he. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_33"><sup>33</sup>May the guilt of their blood rest on the head of Joab and his descendants forever. But on David and his descendants, his house and his throne, may there be the Lord’s peace forever.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_34"> <sup>34</sup>So Benaiah son of Jehoiada went up and struck down Joab and killed him, and he was buried at his home out in the country. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_35"><sup>35</sup>The king put Benaiah son of Jehoiada over the army in Joab’s position and replaced Abiathar with Zadok the priest. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_36"> <sup>36</sup>Then the king sent for Shimei and said to him, “Build yourself a house in Jerusalem and live there, but do not go anywhere else. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_37"><sup>37</sup>The day you leave and cross the Kidron Valley, you can be sure you will die; your blood will be on your own head.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_38"> <sup>38</sup>Shimei answered the king, “What you say is good. Your servant will do as my lord the king has said.” And Shimei stayed in Jerusalem for a long time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_39"> <sup>39</sup>But three years later, two of Shimei’s slaves ran off to Achish son of Maakah, king of Gath, and Shimei was told, “Your slaves are in Gath.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_40"><sup>40</sup>At this, he saddled his donkey and went to Achish at Gath in search of his slaves. So Shimei went away and brought the slaves back from Gath. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_41"> <sup>41</sup>When Solomon was told that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and had returned, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_42"><sup>42</sup>the king summoned Shimei and said to him, “Did I not make you swear by the Lord and warn you, ‘On the day you leave to go anywhere else, you can be sure you will die’? At that time you said to me, ‘What you say is good. I will obey.’ </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_43"><sup>43</sup>Why then did you not keep your oath to the Lord and obey the command I gave you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_44"> <sup>44</sup>The king also said to Shimei, “You know in your heart all the wrong you did to my father David. Now the Lord will repay you for your wrongdoing. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_45"><sup>45</sup>But King Solomon will be blessed, and David’s throne will remain secure before the Lord forever.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_2_46"> <sup>46</sup>Then the king gave the order to Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and he went out and struck Shimei down and he died. <br/> The kingdom was now established in Solomon’s hands. <br/></span>
