---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Solomon’s Officials and Governors </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>So King Solomon ruled over all Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_2"><sup>2</sup>And these were his chief officials: <br/>  Azariah son of Zadok—the priest; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_3">  <sup>3</sup>Elihoreph and Ahijah, sons of Shisha—secretaries; <br/>  Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud—recorder; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_4">  <sup>4</sup>Benaiah son of Jehoiada—commander in chief; <br/>  Zadok and Abiathar—priests; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_5">  <sup>5</sup>Azariah son of Nathan—in charge of the district governors; <br/>  Zabud son of Nathan—a priest and adviser to the king; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_6">  <sup>6</sup>Ahishar—palace administrator; <br/>  Adoniram son of Abda—in charge of forced labor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>Solomon had twelve district governors over all Israel, who supplied provisions for the king and the royal household. Each one had to provide supplies for one month in the year. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_8"><sup>8</sup>These are their names: <br/>  Ben-Hur—in the hill country of Ephraim; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_9">  <sup>9</sup>Ben-Deker—in Makaz, Shaalbim, Beth Shemesh and Elon Bethhanan; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_10">  <sup>10</sup>Ben-Hesed—in Arubboth (Sokoh and all the land of Hepher were his); <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_11">  <sup>11</sup>Ben-Abinadab—in Naphoth Dor (he was married to Taphath daughter of Solomon); <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_12">  <sup>12</sup>Baana son of Ahilud—in Taanach and Megiddo, and in all of Beth Shan next to Zarethan below Jezreel, from Beth Shan to Abel Meholah across to Jokmeam; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_13">  <sup>13</sup>Ben-Geber—in Ramoth Gilead (the settlements of Jair son of Manasseh in Gilead were his, as well as the region of Argob in Bashan and its sixty large walled cities with bronze gate bars); <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_14">  <sup>14</sup>Ahinadab son of Iddo—in Mahanaim; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_15">  <sup>15</sup>Ahimaaz—in Naphtali (he had married Basemath daughter of Solomon); <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_16">  <sup>16</sup>Baana son of Hushai—in Asher and in Aloth; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_17">  <sup>17</sup>Jehoshaphat son of Paruah—in Issachar; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_18">  <sup>18</sup>Shimei son of Ela—in Benjamin; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_19">  <sup>19</sup>Geber son of Uri—in Gilead (the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and the country of Og king of Bashan). He was the only governor over the district. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon’s Daily Provisions </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_20"> <sup>20</sup>The people of Judah and Israel were as numerous as the sand on the seashore; they ate, they drank and they were happy. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_21"><sup>21</sup>And Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the Euphrates River to the land of the Philistines, as far as the border of Egypt. These countries brought tribute and were Solomon’s subjects all his life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_22"> <sup>22</sup>Solomon’s daily provisions were thirty cors<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 5 1/2 tons or about 5 metric tons">⚓</a> of the finest flour and sixty cors<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 11 tons or about 10 metric tons">⚓</a> of meal, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_23"><sup>23</sup>ten head of stall-fed cattle, twenty of pasture-fed cattle and a hundred sheep and goats, as well as deer, gazelles, roebucks and choice fowl. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_24"><sup>24</sup>For he ruled over all the kingdoms west of the Euphrates River, from Tiphsah to Gaza, and had peace on all sides. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_25"><sup>25</sup>During Solomon’s lifetime Judah and Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, lived in safety, everyone under their own vine and under their own fig tree. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_26"> <sup>26</sup>Solomon had four<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 2 Chron. 9:25); Hebrew forty">⚓</a> thousand stalls for chariot horses, and twelve thousand horses.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or charioteers">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_27"> <sup>27</sup>The district governors, each in his month, supplied provisions for King Solomon and all who came to the king’s table. They saw to it that nothing was lacking. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_28"><sup>28</sup>They also brought to the proper place their quotas of barley and straw for the chariot horses and the other horses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon’s Wisdom </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_29"> <sup>29</sup>God gave Solomon wisdom and very great insight, and a breadth of understanding as measureless as the sand on the seashore. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_30"><sup>30</sup>Solomon’s wisdom was greater than the wisdom of all the people of the East, and greater than all the wisdom of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_31"><sup>31</sup>He was wiser than anyone else, including Ethan the Ezrahite—wiser than Heman, Kalkol and Darda, the sons of Mahol. And his fame spread to all the surrounding nations. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_32"><sup>32</sup>He spoke three thousand proverbs and his songs numbered a thousand and five. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_33"><sup>33</sup>He spoke about plant life, from the cedar of Lebanon to the hyssop that grows out of walls. He also spoke about animals and birds, reptiles and fish. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_4_34"><sup>34</sup>From all nations people came to listen to Solomon’s wisdom, sent by all the kings of the world, who had heard of his wisdom.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts 4:21-34 is numbered 5:1-14.">⚓</a><br/></span>
