---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Preparations for Building the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Hiram king of Tyre heard that Solomon had been anointed king to succeed his father David, he sent his envoys to Solomon, because he had always been on friendly terms with David. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_2"><sup>2</sup>Solomon sent back this message to Hiram: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_3"> <sup>3</sup>“You know that because of the wars waged against my father David from all sides, he could not build a temple for the Name of the Lord his God until the Lord put his enemies under his feet. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_4"><sup>4</sup>But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side, and there is no adversary or disaster. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_5"><sup>5</sup>I intend, therefore, to build a temple for the Name of the Lord my God, as the Lord told my father David, when he said, ‘Your son whom I will put on the throne in your place will build the temple for my Name.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>“So give orders that cedars of Lebanon be cut for me. My men will work with yours, and I will pay you for your men whatever wages you set. You know that we have no one so skilled in felling timber as the Sidonians.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_7"> <sup>7</sup>When Hiram heard Solomon’s message, he was greatly pleased and said, “Praise be to the Lord today, for he has given David a wise son to rule over this great nation.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_8"> <sup>8</sup>So Hiram sent word to Solomon: <br/> “I have received the message you sent me and will do all you want in providing the cedar and juniper logs. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_9"><sup>9</sup>My men will haul them down from Lebanon to the Mediterranean Sea, and I will float them as rafts by sea to the place you specify. There I will separate them and you can take them away. And you are to grant my wish by providing food for my royal household.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_10"> <sup>10</sup>In this way Hiram kept Solomon supplied with all the cedar and juniper logs he wanted, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_11"><sup>11</sup>and Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand cors<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3,600 tons or about 3,250 metric tons">⚓</a> of wheat as food for his household, in addition to twenty thousand baths<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint (see also 2 Chron. 2:10); Hebrew twenty cors">⚓</a><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 120,000 gallons or about 440,000 liters">⚓</a> of pressed olive oil. Solomon continued to do this for Hiram year after year. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_12"><sup>12</sup>The Lord gave Solomon wisdom, just as he had promised him. There were peaceful relations between Hiram and Solomon, and the two of them made a treaty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>King Solomon conscripted laborers from all Israel—thirty thousand men. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_14"><sup>14</sup>He sent them off to Lebanon in shifts of ten thousand a month, so that they spent one month in Lebanon and two months at home. Adoniram was in charge of the forced labor. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_15"><sup>15</sup>Solomon had seventy thousand carriers and eighty thousand stonecutters in the hills, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_16"><sup>16</sup>as well as thirty-three hundred<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 2 Chron. 2:2,18) thirty-six hundred">⚓</a> foremen who supervised the project and directed the workers. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_17"><sup>17</sup>At the king’s command they removed from the quarry large blocks of high-grade stone to provide a foundation of dressed stone for the temple. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_5_18"><sup>18</sup>The craftsmen of Solomon and Hiram and workers from Byblos cut and prepared the timber and stone for the building of the temple. <br/></span>
