---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Solomon Builds the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the four hundred and eightieth<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint four hundred and fortieth">⚓</a> year after the Israelites came out of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv, the second month, he began to build the temple of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_2"> <sup>2</sup>The temple that King Solomon built for the Lord was sixty cubits long, twenty wide and thirty high.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 90 feet long, 30 feet wide and 45 feet high or about 27 meters long, 9 meters wide and 14 meters high">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_3"><sup>3</sup>The portico at the front of the main hall of the temple extended the width of the temple, that is twenty cubits,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 30 feet or about 9 meters; also in verses 16 and 20">⚓</a> and projected ten cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 15 feet or about 4.5 meters; also in verses 23-26">⚓</a> from the front of the temple. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_4"><sup>4</sup>He made narrow windows high up in the temple walls. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_5"><sup>5</sup>Against the walls of the main hall and inner sanctuary he built a structure around the building, in which there were side rooms. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_6"><sup>6</sup>The lowest floor was five cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 7 1/2 feet or about 2.3 meters; also in verses 10 and 24">⚓</a> wide, the middle floor six cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 9 feet or about 2.7 meters">⚓</a> and the third floor seven.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 11 feet or about 3.2 meters">⚓</a> He made offset ledges around the outside of the temple so that nothing would be inserted into the temple walls. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_7"> <sup>7</sup>In building the temple, only blocks dressed at the quarry were used, and no hammer, chisel or any other iron tool was heard at the temple site while it was being built. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>The entrance to the lowest<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew middle">⚓</a> floor was on the south side of the temple; a stairway led up to the middle level and from there to the third. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_9"><sup>9</sup>So he built the temple and completed it, roofing it with beams and cedar planks. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_10"><sup>10</sup>And he built the side rooms all along the temple. The height of each was five cubits, and they were attached to the temple by beams of cedar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>The word of the Lord came to Solomon: </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_12"><sup>12</sup>“As for this temple you are building, if you follow my decrees, observe my laws and keep all my commands and obey them, I will fulfill through you the promise I gave to David your father. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_13"><sup>13</sup>And I will live among the Israelites and will not abandon my people Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_14"> <sup>14</sup>So Solomon built the temple and completed it. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_15"><sup>15</sup>He lined its interior walls with cedar boards, paneling them from the floor of the temple to the ceiling, and covered the floor of the temple with planks of juniper. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_16"><sup>16</sup>He partitioned off twenty cubits at the rear of the temple with cedar boards from floor to ceiling to form within the temple an inner sanctuary, the Most Holy Place. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_17"><sup>17</sup>The main hall in front of this room was forty cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 60 feet or about 18 meters">⚓</a> long. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_18"><sup>18</sup>The inside of the temple was cedar, carved with gourds and open flowers. Everything was cedar; no stone was to be seen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_19"> <sup>19</sup>He prepared the inner sanctuary within the temple to set the ark of the covenant of the Lord there. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_20"><sup>20</sup>The inner sanctuary was twenty cubits long, twenty wide and twenty high. He overlaid the inside with pure gold, and he also overlaid the altar of cedar. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_21"><sup>21</sup>Solomon covered the inside of the temple with pure gold, and he extended gold chains across the front of the inner sanctuary, which was overlaid with gold. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_22"><sup>22</sup>So he overlaid the whole interior with gold. He also overlaid with gold the altar that belonged to the inner sanctuary. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_23"> <sup>23</sup>For the inner sanctuary he made a pair of cherubim out of olive wood, each ten cubits high. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_24"><sup>24</sup>One wing of the first cherub was five cubits long, and the other wing five cubits—ten cubits from wing tip to wing tip. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_25"><sup>25</sup>The second cherub also measured ten cubits, for the two cherubim were identical in size and shape. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_26"><sup>26</sup>The height of each cherub was ten cubits. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_27"><sup>27</sup>He placed the cherubim inside the innermost room of the temple, with their wings spread out. The wing of one cherub touched one wall, while the wing of the other touched the other wall, and their wings touched each other in the middle of the room. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_28"><sup>28</sup>He overlaid the cherubim with gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_29"> <sup>29</sup>On the walls all around the temple, in both the inner and outer rooms, he carved cherubim, palm trees and open flowers. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_30"><sup>30</sup>He also covered the floors of both the inner and outer rooms of the temple with gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_31"> <sup>31</sup>For the entrance to the inner sanctuary he made doors out of olive wood that were one fifth of the width of the sanctuary. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_32"><sup>32</sup>And on the two olive-wood doors he carved cherubim, palm trees and open flowers, and overlaid the cherubim and palm trees with hammered gold. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_33"><sup>33</sup>In the same way, for the entrance to the main hall he made doorframes out of olive wood that were one fourth of the width of the hall. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_34"><sup>34</sup>He also made two doors out of juniper wood, each having two leaves that turned in sockets. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_35"><sup>35</sup>He carved cherubim, palm trees and open flowers on them and overlaid them with gold hammered evenly over the carvings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_36"> <sup>36</sup>And he built the inner courtyard of three courses of dressed stone and one course of trimmed cedar beams. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_37"> <sup>37</sup>The foundation of the temple of the Lord was laid in the fourth year, in the month of Ziv. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_6_38"><sup>38</sup>In the eleventh year in the month of Bul, the eighth month, the temple was finished in all its details according to its specifications. He had spent seven years building it. <br/></span>
