---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>The Lord Appears to Solomon </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Solomon had finished building the temple of the Lord and the royal palace, and had achieved all he had desired to do, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_2"><sup>2</sup>the Lord appeared to him a second time, as he had appeared to him at Gibeon. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_3"><sup>3</sup>The Lord said to him: <br/> “I have heard the prayer and plea you have made before me; I have consecrated this temple, which you have built, by putting my Name there forever. My eyes and my heart will always be there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_4"> <sup>4</sup>“As for you, if you walk before me faithfully with integrity of heart and uprightness, as David your father did, and do all I command and observe my decrees and laws, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_5"><sup>5</sup>I will establish your royal throne over Israel forever, as I promised David your father when I said, ‘You shall never fail to have a successor on the throne of Israel.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_6"> <sup>6</sup>“But if you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew is plural.">⚓</a> or your descendants turn away from me and do not observe the commands and decrees I have given you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew is plural.">⚓</a> and go off to serve other gods and worship them, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_7"><sup>7</sup>then I will cut off Israel from the land I have given them and will reject this temple I have consecrated for my Name. Israel will then become a byword and an object of ridicule among all peoples. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_8"><sup>8</sup>This temple will become a heap of rubble. All<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See some Septuagint manuscripts, Old Latin, Syriac, Arabic and Targum; Hebrew And though this temple is now imposing, all">⚓</a> who pass by will be appalled and will scoff and say, ‘Why has the Lord done such a thing to this land and to this temple?’ </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_9"><sup>9</sup>People will answer, ‘Because they have forsaken the Lord their God, who brought their ancestors out of Egypt, and have embraced other gods, worshiping and serving them—that is why the Lord brought all this disaster on them.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon’s Other Activities </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_10"> <sup>10</sup>At the end of twenty years, during which Solomon built these two buildings—the temple of the Lord and the royal palace— </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_11"><sup>11</sup>King Solomon gave twenty towns in Galilee to Hiram king of Tyre, because Hiram had supplied him with all the cedar and juniper and gold he wanted. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_12"><sup>12</sup>But when Hiram went from Tyre to see the towns that Solomon had given him, he was not pleased with them. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_13"><sup>13</sup>“What kind of towns are these you have given me, my brother?” he asked. And he called them the Land of Kabul,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for good-for-nothing.">⚓</a> a name they have to this day. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_14"><sup>14</sup>Now Hiram had sent to the king 120 talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 4 1/2 tons or about 4 metric tons">⚓</a> of gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_15"> <sup>15</sup>Here is the account of the forced labor King Solomon conscripted to build the Lord’s temple, his own palace, the terraces,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Millo ; also in verse 24">⚓</a> the wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, Megiddo and Gezer. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_16"><sup>16</sup>(Pharaoh king of Egypt had attacked and captured Gezer. He had set it on fire. He killed its Canaanite inhabitants and then gave it as a wedding gift to his daughter, Solomon’s wife. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_17"><sup>17</sup>And Solomon rebuilt Gezer.) He built up Lower Beth Horon, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_18"><sup>18</sup>Baalath, and Tadmor<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew may also be read Tamar.">⚓</a> in the desert, within his land, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_19"><sup>19</sup>as well as all his store cities and the towns for his chariots and for his horses<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or charioteers">⚓</a> —whatever he desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon and throughout all the territory he ruled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_20"> <sup>20</sup>There were still people left from the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites (these peoples were not Israelites). </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_21"><sup>21</sup>Solomon conscripted the descendants of all these peoples remaining in the land—whom the Israelites could not exterminate<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them.">⚓</a> —to serve as slave labor, as it is to this day. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_22"><sup>22</sup>But Solomon did not make slaves of any of the Israelites; they were his fighting men, his government officials, his officers, his captains, and the commanders of his chariots and charioteers. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_23"><sup>23</sup>They were also the chief officials in charge of Solomon’s projects—550 officials supervising those who did the work. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_24"> <sup>24</sup>After Pharaoh’s daughter had come up from the City of David to the palace Solomon had built for her, he constructed the terraces. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_25"> <sup>25</sup>Three times a year Solomon sacrificed burnt offerings and fellowship offerings on the altar he had built for the Lord, burning incense before the Lord along with them, and so fulfilled the temple obligations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_26"> <sup>26</sup>King Solomon also built ships at Ezion Geber, which is near Elath in Edom, on the shore of the Red Sea.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_27"><sup>27</sup>And Hiram sent his men—sailors who knew the sea—to serve in the fleet with Solomon’s men. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_9_28"><sup>28</sup>They sailed to Ophir and brought back 420 talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 16 tons or about 14 metric tons">⚓</a> of gold, which they delivered to King Solomon. <br/></span>
