---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Queen of Sheba Visits Solomon </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the queen of Sheba heard about the fame of Solomon and his relationship to the Lord, she came to test Solomon with hard questions. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_2"><sup>2</sup>Arriving at Jerusalem with a very great caravan—with camels carrying spices, large quantities of gold, and precious stones—she came to Solomon and talked with him about all that she had on her mind. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_3"><sup>3</sup>Solomon answered all her questions; nothing was too hard for the king to explain to her. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_4"><sup>4</sup>When the queen of Sheba saw all the wisdom of Solomon and the palace he had built, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_5"><sup>5</sup>the food on his table, the seating of his officials, the attending servants in their robes, his cupbearers, and the burnt offerings he made at<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the ascent by which he went up to">⚓</a> the temple of the Lord, she was overwhelmed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_6"> <sup>6</sup>She said to the king, “The report I heard in my own country about your achievements and your wisdom is true. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_7"><sup>7</sup>But I did not believe these things until I came and saw with my own eyes. Indeed, not even half was told me; in wisdom and wealth you have far exceeded the report I heard. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_8"><sup>8</sup>How happy your people must be! How happy your officials, who continually stand before you and hear your wisdom! </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_9"><sup>9</sup>Praise be to the Lord your God, who has delighted in you and placed you on the throne of Israel. Because of the Lord’s eternal love for Israel, he has made you king to maintain justice and righteousness.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_10"> <sup>10</sup>And she gave the king 120 talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 4 1/2 tons or about 4 metric tons">⚓</a> of gold, large quantities of spices, and precious stones. Never again were so many spices brought in as those the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_11"> <sup>11</sup>(Hiram’s ships brought gold from Ophir; and from there they brought great cargoes of almugwood<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probably a variant of algumwood ; also in verse 12">⚓</a> and precious stones. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_12"><sup>12</sup>The king used the almugwood to make supports<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> for the temple of the Lord and for the royal palace, and to make harps and lyres for the musicians. So much almugwood has never been imported or seen since that day.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_13"> <sup>13</sup>King Solomon gave the queen of Sheba all she desired and asked for, besides what he had given her out of his royal bounty. Then she left and returned with her retinue to her own country. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon’s Splendor </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_14"> <sup>14</sup>The weight of the gold that Solomon received yearly was 666 talents,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 25 tons or about 23 metric tons">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_15"><sup>15</sup>not including the revenues from merchants and traders and from all the Arabian kings and the governors of the territories. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>King Solomon made two hundred large shields of hammered gold; six hundred shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 15 pounds or about 6.9 kilograms; also in verse 29">⚓</a> of gold went into each shield. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_17"><sup>17</sup>He also made three hundred small shields of hammered gold, with three minas<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 3/4 pounds or about 1.7 kilograms; or perhaps reference is to double minas, that is, about 7 1/2 pounds or about 3.5 kilograms.">⚓</a> of gold in each shield. The king put them in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then the king made a great throne covered with ivory and overlaid with fine gold. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_19"><sup>19</sup>The throne had six steps, and its back had a rounded top. On both sides of the seat were armrests, with a lion standing beside each of them. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_20"><sup>20</sup>Twelve lions stood on the six steps, one at either end of each step. Nothing like it had ever been made for any other kingdom. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_21"><sup>21</sup>All King Solomon’s goblets were gold, and all the household articles in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon were pure gold. Nothing was made of silver, because silver was considered of little value in Solomon’s days. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_22"><sup>22</sup>The king had a fleet of trading ships<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew of ships of Tarshish">⚓</a> at sea along with the ships of Hiram. Once every three years it returned, carrying gold, silver and ivory, and apes and baboons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_23"> <sup>23</sup>King Solomon was greater in riches and wisdom than all the other kings of the earth. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_24"><sup>24</sup>The whole world sought audience with Solomon to hear the wisdom God had put in his heart. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_25"><sup>25</sup>Year after year, everyone who came brought a gift—articles of silver and gold, robes, weapons and spices, and horses and mules. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_26"> <sup>26</sup>Solomon accumulated chariots and horses; he had fourteen hundred chariots and twelve thousand horses,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or charioteers">⚓</a> which he kept in the chariot cities and also with him in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_27"><sup>27</sup>The king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar as plentiful as sycamore-fig trees in the foothills. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_28"><sup>28</sup>Solomon’s horses were imported from Egypt and from Kue<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probably Cilicia">⚓</a> —the royal merchants purchased them from Kue at the current price. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_10_29"><sup>29</sup>They imported a chariot from Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 3/4 pounds or about 1.7 kilograms">⚓</a> They also exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and of the Arameans. <br/></span>
