---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>Solomon’s Wives </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>King Solomon, however, loved many foreign women besides Pharaoh’s daughter—Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians and Hittites. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_2"><sup>2</sup>They were from nations about which the Lord had told the Israelites, “You must not intermarry with them, because they will surely turn your hearts after their gods.” Nevertheless, Solomon held fast to them in love. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_3"><sup>3</sup>He had seven hundred wives of royal birth and three hundred concubines, and his wives led him astray. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_4"><sup>4</sup>As Solomon grew old, his wives turned his heart after other gods, and his heart was not fully devoted to the Lord his God, as the heart of David his father had been. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_5"><sup>5</sup>He followed Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and Molek the detestable god of the Ammonites. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_6"><sup>6</sup>So Solomon did evil in the eyes of the Lord; he did not follow the Lord completely, as David his father had done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>On a hill east of Jerusalem, Solomon built a high place for Chemosh the detestable god of Moab, and for Molek the detestable god of the Ammonites. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_8"><sup>8</sup>He did the same for all his foreign wives, who burned incense and offered sacrifices to their gods. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Lord became angry with Solomon because his heart had turned away from the Lord, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_10"><sup>10</sup>Although he had forbidden Solomon to follow other gods, Solomon did not keep the Lord’s command. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_11"><sup>11</sup>So the Lord said to Solomon, “Since this is your attitude and you have not kept my covenant and my decrees, which I commanded you, I will most certainly tear the kingdom away from you and give it to one of your subordinates. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_12"><sup>12</sup>Nevertheless, for the sake of David your father, I will not do it during your lifetime. I will tear it out of the hand of your son. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_13"><sup>13</sup>Yet I will not tear the whole kingdom from him, but will give him one tribe for the sake of David my servant and for the sake of Jerusalem, which I have chosen.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon’s Adversaries </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then the Lord raised up against Solomon an adversary, Hadad the Edomite, from the royal line of Edom. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_15"><sup>15</sup>Earlier when David was fighting with Edom, Joab the commander of the army, who had gone up to bury the dead, had struck down all the men in Edom. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_16"><sup>16</sup>Joab and all the Israelites stayed there for six months, until they had destroyed all the men in Edom. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_17"><sup>17</sup>But Hadad, still only a boy, fled to Egypt with some Edomite officials who had served his father. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_18"><sup>18</sup>They set out from Midian and went to Paran. Then taking people from Paran with them, they went to Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave Hadad a house and land and provided him with food. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_19"> <sup>19</sup>Pharaoh was so pleased with Hadad that he gave him a sister of his own wife, Queen Tahpenes, in marriage. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_20"><sup>20</sup>The sister of Tahpenes bore him a son named Genubath, whom Tahpenes brought up in the royal palace. There Genubath lived with Pharaoh’s own children. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_21"> <sup>21</sup>While he was in Egypt, Hadad heard that David rested with his ancestors and that Joab the commander of the army was also dead. Then Hadad said to Pharaoh, “Let me go, that I may return to my own country.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>“What have you lacked here that you want to go back to your own country?” Pharaoh asked. <br/> “Nothing,” Hadad replied, “but do let me go!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_23"> <sup>23</sup>And God raised up against Solomon another adversary, Rezon son of Eliada, who had fled from his master, Hadadezer king of Zobah. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_24"><sup>24</sup>When David destroyed Zobah’s army, Rezon gathered a band of men around him and became their leader; they went to Damascus, where they settled and took control. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_25"><sup>25</sup>Rezon was Israel’s adversary as long as Solomon lived, adding to the trouble caused by Hadad. So Rezon ruled in Aram and was hostile toward Israel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jeroboam Rebels Against Solomon </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_26"> <sup>26</sup>Also, Jeroboam son of Nebat rebelled against the king. He was one of Solomon’s officials, an Ephraimite from Zeredah, and his mother was a widow named Zeruah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_27"> <sup>27</sup>Here is the account of how he rebelled against the king: Solomon had built the terraces<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Millo">⚓</a> and had filled in the gap in the wall of the city of David his father. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_28"><sup>28</sup>Now Jeroboam was a man of standing, and when Solomon saw how well the young man did his work, he put him in charge of the whole labor force of the tribes of Joseph. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_29"> <sup>29</sup>About that time Jeroboam was going out of Jerusalem, and Ahijah the prophet of Shiloh met him on the way, wearing a new cloak. The two of them were alone out in the country, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_30"><sup>30</sup>and Ahijah took hold of the new cloak he was wearing and tore it into twelve pieces. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_31"><sup>31</sup>Then he said to Jeroboam, “Take ten pieces for yourself, for this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: ‘See, I am going to tear the kingdom out of Solomon’s hand and give you ten tribes. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_32"><sup>32</sup>But for the sake of my servant David and the city of Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, he will have one tribe. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_33"><sup>33</sup>I will do this because they have<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac because he has">⚓</a> forsaken me and worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of the Moabites, and Molek the god of the Ammonites, and have not walked in obedience to me, nor done what is right in my eyes, nor kept my decrees and laws as David, Solomon’s father, did. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_34"> <sup>34</sup>“ ‘But I will not take the whole kingdom out of Solomon’s hand; I have made him ruler all the days of his life for the sake of David my servant, whom I chose and who obeyed my commands and decrees. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_35"><sup>35</sup>I will take the kingdom from his son’s hands and give you ten tribes. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_36"><sup>36</sup>I will give one tribe to his son so that David my servant may always have a lamp before me in Jerusalem, the city where I chose to put my Name. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_37"><sup>37</sup>However, as for you, I will take you, and you will rule over all that your heart desires; you will be king over Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_38"><sup>38</sup>If you do whatever I command you and walk in obedience to me and do what is right in my eyes by obeying my decrees and commands, as David my servant did, I will be with you. I will build you a dynasty as enduring as the one I built for David and will give Israel to you. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_39"><sup>39</sup>I will humble David’s descendants because of this, but not forever.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_40"> <sup>40</sup>Solomon tried to kill Jeroboam, but Jeroboam fled to Egypt, to Shishak the king, and stayed there until Solomon’s death. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon’s Death </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_41"> <sup>41</sup>As for the other events of Solomon’s reign—all he did and the wisdom he displayed—are they not written in the book of the annals of Solomon? </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_42"><sup>42</sup>Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_11_43"><sup>43</sup>Then he rested with his ancestors and was buried in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
