---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Israel Rebels Against Rehoboam </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had gone there to make him king. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_2"><sup>2</sup>When Jeroboam son of Nebat heard this (he was still in Egypt, where he had fled from King Solomon), he returned from<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or he remained in">⚓</a> Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_3"><sup>3</sup>So they sent for Jeroboam, and he and the whole assembly of Israel went to Rehoboam and said to him: </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_4"><sup>4</sup>“Your father put a heavy yoke on us, but now lighten the harsh labor and the heavy yoke he put on us, and we will serve you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_5"> <sup>5</sup>Rehoboam answered, “Go away for three days and then come back to me.” So the people went away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then King Rehoboam consulted the elders who had served his father Solomon during his lifetime. “How would you advise me to answer these people?” he asked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>They replied, “If today you will be a servant to these people and serve them and give them a favorable answer, they will always be your servants.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>But Rehoboam rejected the advice the elders gave him and consulted the young men who had grown up with him and were serving him. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_9"><sup>9</sup>He asked them, “What is your advice? How should we answer these people who say to me, ‘Lighten the yoke your father put on us’?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_10"> <sup>10</sup>The young men who had grown up with him replied, “These people have said to you, ‘Your father put a heavy yoke on us, but make our yoke lighter.’ Now tell them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father’s waist. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_11"><sup>11</sup>My father laid on you a heavy yoke; I will make it even heavier. My father scourged you with whips; I will scourge you with scorpions.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_12"> <sup>12</sup>Three days later Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam, as the king had said, “Come back to me in three days.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_13"><sup>13</sup>The king answered the people harshly. Rejecting the advice given him by the elders, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_14"><sup>14</sup>he followed the advice of the young men and said, “My father made your yoke heavy; I will make it even heavier. My father scourged you with whips; I will scourge you with scorpions.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_15"><sup>15</sup>So the king did not listen to the people, for this turn of events was from the Lord, to fulfill the word the Lord had spoken to Jeroboam son of Nebat through Ahijah the Shilonite. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_16"> <sup>16</sup>When all Israel saw that the king refused to listen to them, they answered the king: <br/>  “What share do we have in David, <br/>   what part in Jesse’s son? <br/>  To your tents, Israel! <br/>   Look after your own house, David!” <br/>So the Israelites went home. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_17"><sup>17</sup>But as for the Israelites who were living in the towns of Judah, Rehoboam still ruled over them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_18"> <sup>18</sup>King Rehoboam sent out Adoniram,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 4:6 and 5:14); Hebrew Adoram">⚓</a> who was in charge of forced labor, but all Israel stoned him to death. King Rehoboam, however, managed to get into his chariot and escape to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_19"><sup>19</sup>So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_20"> <sup>20</sup>When all the Israelites heard that Jeroboam had returned, they sent and called him to the assembly and made him king over all Israel. Only the tribe of Judah remained loyal to the house of David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_21"> <sup>21</sup>When Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem, he mustered all Judah and the tribe of Benjamin—a hundred and eighty thousand able young men—to go to war against Israel and to regain the kingdom for Rehoboam son of Solomon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_22"> <sup>22</sup>But this word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God: </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_23"><sup>23</sup>“Say to Rehoboam son of Solomon king of Judah, to all Judah and Benjamin, and to the rest of the people, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_24"><sup>24</sup>‘This is what the Lord says: Do not go up to fight against your brothers, the Israelites. Go home, every one of you, for this is my doing.’ ” So they obeyed the word of the Lord and went home again, as the Lord had ordered. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Golden Calves at Bethel and Dan </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then Jeroboam fortified Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim and lived there. From there he went out and built up Peniel.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Penuel, a variant of Peniel">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_26"> <sup>26</sup>Jeroboam thought to himself, “The kingdom will now likely revert to the house of David. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_27"><sup>27</sup>If these people go up to offer sacrifices at the temple of the Lord in Jerusalem, they will again give their allegiance to their lord, Rehoboam king of Judah. They will kill me and return to King Rehoboam.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_28"> <sup>28</sup>After seeking advice, the king made two golden calves. He said to the people, “It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. Here are your gods, Israel, who brought you up out of Egypt.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_29"><sup>29</sup>One he set up in Bethel, and the other in Dan. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_30"><sup>30</sup>And this thing became a sin; the people came to worship the one at Bethel and went as far as Dan to worship the other.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text people went to the one as far as Dan">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_31"> <sup>31</sup>Jeroboam built shrines on high places and appointed priests from all sorts of people, even though they were not Levites. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_32"><sup>32</sup>He instituted a festival on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, like the festival held in Judah, and offered sacrifices on the altar. This he did in Bethel, sacrificing to the calves he had made. And at Bethel he also installed priests at the high places he had made. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_12_33"><sup>33</sup>On the fifteenth day of the eighth month, a month of his own choosing, he offered sacrifices on the altar he had built at Bethel. So he instituted the festival for the Israelites and went up to the altar to make offerings. <br/></span>
