---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>Abijah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the eighteenth year of the reign of Jeroboam son of Nebat, Abijah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint (see also 2 Chron. 12:16); most Hebrew manuscripts Abijam ; also in verses 7 and 8">⚓</a> became king of Judah, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_2"><sup>2</sup>and he reigned in Jerusalem three years. His mother’s name was Maakah daughter of Abishalom.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A variant of Absalom ; also in verse 10">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_3"> <sup>3</sup>He committed all the sins his father had done before him; his heart was not fully devoted to the Lord his God, as the heart of David his forefather had been. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_4"><sup>4</sup>Nevertheless, for David’s sake the Lord his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem by raising up a son to succeed him and by making Jerusalem strong. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_5"><sup>5</sup>For David had done what was right in the eyes of the Lord and had not failed to keep any of the Lord’s commands all the days of his life—except in the case of Uriah the Hittite. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_6"> <sup>6</sup>There was war between Abijah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac Abijam (that is, Abijah); most Hebrew manuscripts Rehoboam">⚓</a> and Jeroboam throughout Abijah’s lifetime. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_7"><sup>7</sup>As for the other events of Abijah’s reign, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? There was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_8"><sup>8</sup>And Abijah rested with his ancestors and was buried in the City of David. And Asa his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Asa King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_9"> <sup>9</sup>In the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa became king of Judah, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_10"><sup>10</sup>and he reigned in Jerusalem forty-one years. His grandmother’s name was Maakah daughter of Abishalom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_11"> <sup>11</sup>Asa did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, as his father David had done. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_12"><sup>12</sup>He expelled the male shrine prostitutes from the land and got rid of all the idols his ancestors had made. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_13"><sup>13</sup>He even deposed his grandmother Maakah from her position as queen mother, because she had made a repulsive image for the worship of Asherah. Asa cut it down and burned it in the Kidron Valley. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_14"><sup>14</sup>Although he did not remove the high places, Asa’s heart was fully committed to the Lord all his life. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_15"><sup>15</sup>He brought into the temple of the Lord the silver and gold and the articles that he and his father had dedicated. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_16"> <sup>16</sup>There was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel throughout their reigns. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_17"><sup>17</sup>Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and fortified Ramah to prevent anyone from leaving or entering the territory of Asa king of Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_18"> <sup>18</sup>Asa then took all the silver and gold that was left in the treasuries of the Lord’s temple and of his own palace. He entrusted it to his officials and sent them to Ben-Hadad son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, the king of Aram, who was ruling in Damascus. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_19"><sup>19</sup>“Let there be a treaty between me and you,” he said, “as there was between my father and your father. See, I am sending you a gift of silver and gold. Now break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel so he will withdraw from me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_20"> <sup>20</sup>Ben-Hadad agreed with King Asa and sent the commanders of his forces against the towns of Israel. He conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel Beth Maakah and all Kinnereth in addition to Naphtali. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_21"><sup>21</sup>When Baasha heard this, he stopped building Ramah and withdrew to Tirzah. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_22"><sup>22</sup>Then King Asa issued an order to all Judah—no one was exempt—and they carried away from Ramah the stones and timber Baasha had been using there. With them King Asa built up Geba in Benjamin, and also Mizpah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_23"> <sup>23</sup>As for all the other events of Asa’s reign, all his achievements, all he did and the cities he built, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? In his old age, however, his feet became diseased. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_24"><sup>24</sup>Then Asa rested with his ancestors and was buried with them in the city of his father David. And Jehoshaphat his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Nadab King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_25"> <sup>25</sup>Nadab son of Jeroboam became king of Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_26"><sup>26</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, following the ways of his father and committing the same sin his father had caused Israel to commit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_27"> <sup>27</sup>Baasha son of Ahijah from the tribe of Issachar plotted against him, and he struck him down at Gibbethon, a Philistine town, while Nadab and all Israel were besieging it. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_28"><sup>28</sup>Baasha killed Nadab in the third year of Asa king of Judah and succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_29"> <sup>29</sup>As soon as he began to reign, he killed Jeroboam’s whole family. He did not leave Jeroboam anyone that breathed, but destroyed them all, according to the word of the Lord given through his servant Ahijah the Shilonite. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_30"><sup>30</sup>This happened because of the sins Jeroboam had committed and had caused Israel to commit, and because he aroused the anger of the Lord, the God of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_31"> <sup>31</sup>As for the other events of Nadab’s reign, and all he did, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel? </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_32"><sup>32</sup>There was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel throughout their reigns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_33"> <sup>33</sup>In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha son of Ahijah became king of all Israel in Tirzah, and he reigned twenty-four years. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_15_34"><sup>34</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, following the ways of Jeroboam and committing the same sin Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit. <br/></span>
