---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>Elijah Announces a Great Drought </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Elijah the Tishbite, from Tishbe<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Tishbite, of the settlers">⚓</a> in Gilead, said to Ahab, “As the Lord, the God of Israel, lives, whom I serve, there will be neither dew nor rain in the next few years except at my word.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Elijah Fed by Ravens </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah: </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_3"><sup>3</sup>“Leave here, turn eastward and hide in the Kerith Ravine, east of the Jordan. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_4"><sup>4</sup>You will drink from the brook, and I have directed the ravens to supply you with food there.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_5"> <sup>5</sup>So he did what the Lord had told him. He went to the Kerith Ravine, east of the Jordan, and stayed there. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_6"><sup>6</sup>The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the brook. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Elijah and the Widow at Zarephath </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_7"> <sup>7</sup>Some time later the brook dried up because there had been no rain in the land. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_8"><sup>8</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to him: </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_9"><sup>9</sup>“Go at once to Zarephath in the region of Sidon and stay there. I have directed a widow there to supply you with food.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_10"><sup>10</sup>So he went to Zarephath. When he came to the town gate, a widow was there gathering sticks. He called to her and asked, “Would you bring me a little water in a jar so I may have a drink?” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_11"><sup>11</sup>As she was going to get it, he called, “And bring me, please, a piece of bread.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_12"> <sup>12</sup>“As surely as the Lord your God lives,” she replied, “I don’t have any bread—only a handful of flour in a jar and a little olive oil in a jug. I am gathering a few sticks to take home and make a meal for myself and my son, that we may eat it—and die.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_13"> <sup>13</sup>Elijah said to her, “Don’t be afraid. Go home and do as you have said. But first make a small loaf of bread for me from what you have and bring it to me, and then make something for yourself and your son. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_14"><sup>14</sup>For this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: ‘The jar of flour will not be used up and the jug of oil will not run dry until the day the Lord sends rain on the land.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_15"> <sup>15</sup>She went away and did as Elijah had told her. So there was food every day for Elijah and for the woman and her family. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_16"><sup>16</sup>For the jar of flour was not used up and the jug of oil did not run dry, in keeping with the word of the Lord spoken by Elijah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_17"> <sup>17</sup>Some time later the son of the woman who owned the house became ill. He grew worse and worse, and finally stopped breathing. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_18"><sup>18</sup>She said to Elijah, “What do you have against me, man of God? Did you come to remind me of my sin and kill my son?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Give me your son,” Elijah replied. He took him from her arms, carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his bed. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_20"><sup>20</sup>Then he cried out to the Lord, “Lord my God, have you brought tragedy even on this widow I am staying with, by causing her son to die?” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_21"><sup>21</sup>Then he stretched himself out on the boy three times and cried out to the Lord, “Lord my God, let this boy’s life return to him!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_22"> <sup>22</sup>The Lord heard Elijah’s cry, and the boy’s life returned to him, and he lived. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_23"><sup>23</sup>Elijah picked up the child and carried him down from the room into the house. He gave him to his mother and said, “Look, your son is alive!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_17_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then the woman said to Elijah, “Now I know that you are a man of God and that the word of the Lord from your mouth is the truth.” <br/></span>
