---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>Elijah and Obadiah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>After a long time, in the third year, the word of the Lord came to Elijah: “Go and present yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain on the land.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_2"><sup>2</sup>So Elijah went to present himself to Ahab. <br/> Now the famine was severe in Samaria, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_3"><sup>3</sup>and Ahab had summoned Obadiah, his palace administrator. (Obadiah was a devout believer in the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_4"><sup>4</sup>While Jezebel was killing off the Lord’s prophets, Obadiah had taken a hundred prophets and hidden them in two caves, fifty in each, and had supplied them with food and water.) </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_5"><sup>5</sup>Ahab had said to Obadiah, “Go through the land to all the springs and valleys. Maybe we can find some grass to keep the horses and mules alive so we will not have to kill any of our animals.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_6"><sup>6</sup>So they divided the land they were to cover, Ahab going in one direction and Obadiah in another. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_7"> <sup>7</sup>As Obadiah was walking along, Elijah met him. Obadiah recognized him, bowed down to the ground, and said, “Is it really you, my lord Elijah?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Yes,” he replied. “Go tell your master, ‘Elijah is here.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>“What have I done wrong,” asked Obadiah, “that you are handing your servant over to Ahab to be put to death? </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_10"><sup>10</sup>As surely as the Lord your God lives, there is not a nation or kingdom where my master has not sent someone to look for you. And whenever a nation or kingdom claimed you were not there, he made them swear they could not find you. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_11"><sup>11</sup>But now you tell me to go to my master and say, ‘Elijah is here.’ </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_12"><sup>12</sup>I don’t know where the Spirit of the Lord may carry you when I leave you. If I go and tell Ahab and he doesn’t find you, he will kill me. Yet I your servant have worshiped the Lord since my youth. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_13"><sup>13</sup>Haven’t you heard, my lord, what I did while Jezebel was killing the prophets of the Lord? I hid a hundred of the Lord’s prophets in two caves, fifty in each, and supplied them with food and water. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_14"><sup>14</sup>And now you tell me to go to my master and say, ‘Elijah is here.’ He will kill me!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_15"> <sup>15</sup>Elijah said, “As the Lord Almighty lives, whom I serve, I will surely present myself to Ahab today.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Elijah on Mount Carmel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_16"> <sup>16</sup>So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_17"><sup>17</sup>When he saw Elijah, he said to him, “Is that you, you troubler of Israel?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_18"> <sup>18</sup>“I have not made trouble for Israel,” Elijah replied. “But you and your father’s family have. You have abandoned the Lord’s commands and have followed the Baals. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_19"><sup>19</sup>Now summon the people from all over Israel to meet me on Mount Carmel. And bring the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel’s table.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_20"> <sup>20</sup>So Ahab sent word throughout all Israel and assembled the prophets on Mount Carmel. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_21"><sup>21</sup>Elijah went before the people and said, “How long will you waver between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him; but if Baal is God, follow him.” <br/> But the people said nothing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then Elijah said to them, “I am the only one of the Lord’s prophets left, but Baal has four hundred and fifty prophets. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_23"><sup>23</sup>Get two bulls for us. Let Baal’s prophets choose one for themselves, and let them cut it into pieces and put it on the wood but not set fire to it. I will prepare the other bull and put it on the wood but not set fire to it. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_24"><sup>24</sup>Then you call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of the Lord. The god who answers by fire—he is God.” <br/> Then all the people said, “What you say is good.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_25"> <sup>25</sup>Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, “Choose one of the bulls and prepare it first, since there are so many of you. Call on the name of your god, but do not light the fire.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_26"><sup>26</sup>So they took the bull given them and prepared it. <br/> Then they called on the name of Baal from morning till noon. “Baal, answer us!” they shouted. But there was no response; no one answered. And they danced around the altar they had made. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_27"> <sup>27</sup>At noon Elijah began to taunt them. “Shout louder!” he said. “Surely he is a god! Perhaps he is deep in thought, or busy, or traveling. Maybe he is sleeping and must be awakened.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_28"><sup>28</sup>So they shouted louder and slashed themselves with swords and spears, as was their custom, until their blood flowed. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_29"><sup>29</sup>Midday passed, and they continued their frantic prophesying until the time for the evening sacrifice. But there was no response, no one answered, no one paid attention. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then Elijah said to all the people, “Come here to me.” They came to him, and he repaired the altar of the Lord, which had been torn down. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_31"><sup>31</sup>Elijah took twelve stones, one for each of the tribes descended from Jacob, to whom the word of the Lord had come, saying, “Your name shall be Israel.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_32"><sup>32</sup>With the stones he built an altar in the name of the Lord, and he dug a trench around it large enough to hold two seahs<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 24 pounds or about 11 kilograms">⚓</a> of seed. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_33"><sup>33</sup>He arranged the wood, cut the bull into pieces and laid it on the wood. Then he said to them, “Fill four large jars with water and pour it on the offering and on the wood.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_34"> <sup>34</sup>“Do it again,” he said, and they did it again. <br/> “Do it a third time,” he ordered, and they did it the third time. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_35"><sup>35</sup>The water ran down around the altar and even filled the trench. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_36"> <sup>36</sup>At the time of sacrifice, the prophet Elijah stepped forward and prayed: “Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, let it be known today that you are God in Israel and that I am your servant and have done all these things at your command. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_37"><sup>37</sup>Answer me, Lord, answer me, so these people will know that you, Lord, are God, and that you are turning their hearts back again.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_38"> <sup>38</sup>Then the fire of the Lord fell and burned up the sacrifice, the wood, the stones and the soil, and also licked up the water in the trench. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_39"> <sup>39</sup>When all the people saw this, they fell prostrate and cried, “The Lord—he is God! The Lord—he is God!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_40"> <sup>40</sup>Then Elijah commanded them, “Seize the prophets of Baal. Don’t let anyone get away!” They seized them, and Elijah had them brought down to the Kishon Valley and slaughtered there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_41"> <sup>41</sup>And Elijah said to Ahab, “Go, eat and drink, for there is the sound of a heavy rain.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_42"><sup>42</sup>So Ahab went off to eat and drink, but Elijah climbed to the top of Carmel, bent down to the ground and put his face between his knees. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_43"> <sup>43</sup>“Go and look toward the sea,” he told his servant. And he went up and looked. <br/> “There is nothing there,” he said. <br/> Seven times Elijah said, “Go back.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_44"> <sup>44</sup>The seventh time the servant reported, “A cloud as small as a man’s hand is rising from the sea.” <br/> So Elijah said, “Go and tell Ahab, ‘Hitch up your chariot and go down before the rain stops you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_45"> <sup>45</sup>Meanwhile, the sky grew black with clouds, the wind rose, a heavy rain started falling and Ahab rode off to Jezreel. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_18_46"><sup>46</sup>The power of the Lord came on Elijah and, tucking his cloak into his belt, he ran ahead of Ahab all the way to Jezreel. <br/></span>
