---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Kings 
bookNumber: 11
audio: \Audio\NIV\1vua\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>Micaiah Prophesies Against Ahab </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>For three years there was no war between Aram and Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_2"><sup>2</sup>But in the third year Jehoshaphat king of Judah went down to see the king of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_3"><sup>3</sup>The king of Israel had said to his officials, “Don’t you know that Ramoth Gilead belongs to us and yet we are doing nothing to retake it from the king of Aram?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_4"> <sup>4</sup>So he asked Jehoshaphat, “Will you go with me to fight against Ramoth Gilead?” <br/> Jehoshaphat replied to the king of Israel, “I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_5"><sup>5</sup>But Jehoshaphat also said to the king of Israel, “First seek the counsel of the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>So the king of Israel brought together the prophets—about four hundred men—and asked them, “Shall I go to war against Ramoth Gilead, or shall I refrain?” <br/> “Go,” they answered, “for the Lord will give it into the king’s hand.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_7"> <sup>7</sup>But Jehoshaphat asked, “Is there no longer a prophet of the Lord here whom we can inquire of?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_8"> <sup>8</sup>The king of Israel answered Jehoshaphat, “There is still one prophet through whom we can inquire of the Lord, but I hate him because he never prophesies anything good about me, but always bad. He is Micaiah son of Imlah.” <br/> “The king should not say such a thing,” Jehoshaphat replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_9"> <sup>9</sup>So the king of Israel called one of his officials and said, “Bring Micaiah son of Imlah at once.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_10"> <sup>10</sup>Dressed in their royal robes, the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah were sitting on their thrones at the threshing floor by the entrance of the gate of Samaria, with all the prophets prophesying before them. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_11"><sup>11</sup>Now Zedekiah son of Kenaanah had made iron horns and he declared, “This is what the Lord says: ‘With these you will gore the Arameans until they are destroyed.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_12"> <sup>12</sup>All the other prophets were prophesying the same thing. “Attack Ramoth Gilead and be victorious,” they said, “for the Lord will give it into the king’s hand.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_13"> <sup>13</sup>The messenger who had gone to summon Micaiah said to him, “Look, the other prophets without exception are predicting success for the king. Let your word agree with theirs, and speak favorably.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_14"> <sup>14</sup>But Micaiah said, “As surely as the Lord lives, I can tell him only what the Lord tells me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_15"> <sup>15</sup>When he arrived, the king asked him, “Micaiah, shall we go to war against Ramoth Gilead, or not?” <br/> “Attack and be victorious,” he answered, “for the Lord will give it into the king’s hand.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_16"> <sup>16</sup>The king said to him, “How many times must I make you swear to tell me nothing but the truth in the name of the Lord?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then Micaiah answered, “I saw all Israel scattered on the hills like sheep without a shepherd, and the Lord said, ‘These people have no master. Let each one go home in peace.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_18"> <sup>18</sup>The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Didn’t I tell you that he never prophesies anything good about me, but only bad?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_19"> <sup>19</sup>Micaiah continued, “Therefore hear the word of the Lord: I saw the Lord sitting on his throne with all the multitudes of heaven standing around him on his right and on his left. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_20"><sup>20</sup>And the Lord said, ‘Who will entice Ahab into attacking Ramoth Gilead and going to his death there?’ <br/> “One suggested this, and another that. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_21"><sup>21</sup>Finally, a spirit came forward, stood before the Lord and said, ‘I will entice him.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_22"> <sup>22</sup>“ ‘By what means?’ the Lord asked. <br/> “ ‘I will go out and be a deceiving spirit in the mouths of all his prophets,’ he said. <br/> “ ‘You will succeed in enticing him,’ said the Lord. ‘Go and do it.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_23"> <sup>23</sup>“So now the Lord has put a deceiving spirit in the mouths of all these prophets of yours. The Lord has decreed disaster for you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then Zedekiah son of Kenaanah went up and slapped Micaiah in the face. “Which way did the spirit from<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Spirit of">⚓</a> the Lord go when he went from me to speak to you?” he asked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_25"> <sup>25</sup>Micaiah replied, “You will find out on the day you go to hide in an inner room.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_26"> <sup>26</sup>The king of Israel then ordered, “Take Micaiah and send him back to Amon the ruler of the city and to Joash the king’s son </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_27"><sup>27</sup>and say, ‘This is what the king says: Put this fellow in prison and give him nothing but bread and water until I return safely.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_28"> <sup>28</sup>Micaiah declared, “If you ever return safely, the Lord has not spoken through me.” Then he added, “Mark my words, all you people!” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ahab Killed at Ramoth Gilead </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_29"> <sup>29</sup>So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up to Ramoth Gilead. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_30"><sup>30</sup>The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will enter the battle in disguise, but you wear your royal robes.” So the king of Israel disguised himself and went into battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_31"> <sup>31</sup>Now the king of Aram had ordered his thirty-two chariot commanders, “Do not fight with anyone, small or great, except the king of Israel.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_32"><sup>32</sup>When the chariot commanders saw Jehoshaphat, they thought, “Surely this is the king of Israel.” So they turned to attack him, but when Jehoshaphat cried out, </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_33"><sup>33</sup>the chariot commanders saw that he was not the king of Israel and stopped pursuing him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_34"> <sup>34</sup>But someone drew his bow at random and hit the king of Israel between the sections of his armor. The king told his chariot driver, “Wheel around and get me out of the fighting. I’ve been wounded.” </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_35"><sup>35</sup>All day long the battle raged, and the king was propped up in his chariot facing the Arameans. The blood from his wound ran onto the floor of the chariot, and that evening he died. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_36"><sup>36</sup>As the sun was setting, a cry spread through the army: “Every man to his town. Every man to his land!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_37"> <sup>37</sup>So the king died and was brought to Samaria, and they buried him there. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_38"><sup>38</sup>They washed the chariot at a pool in Samaria (where the prostitutes bathed),<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Samaria and cleaned the weapons">⚓</a> and the dogs licked up his blood, as the word of the Lord had declared. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_39"> <sup>39</sup>As for the other events of Ahab’s reign, including all he did, the palace he built and adorned with ivory, and the cities he fortified, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel? </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_40"><sup>40</sup>Ahab rested with his ancestors. And Ahaziah his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoshaphat King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_41"> <sup>41</sup>Jehoshaphat son of Asa became king of Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_42"><sup>42</sup>Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem twenty-five years. His mother’s name was Azubah daughter of Shilhi. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_43"><sup>43</sup>In everything he followed the ways of his father Asa and did not stray from them; he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. The high places, however, were not removed, and the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts this sentence (22:43b) is numbered 22:44, and 22:44-53 is numbered 22:45-54.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_44"><sup>44</sup>Jehoshaphat was also at peace with the king of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_45"> <sup>45</sup>As for the other events of Jehoshaphat’s reign, the things he achieved and his military exploits, are they not written in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah? </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_46"><sup>46</sup>He rid the land of the rest of the male shrine prostitutes who remained there even after the reign of his father Asa. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_47"><sup>47</sup>There was then no king in Edom; a provincial governor ruled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_48"> <sup>48</sup>Now Jehoshaphat built a fleet of trading ships<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew of ships of Tarshish">⚓</a> to go to Ophir for gold, but they never set sail—they were wrecked at Ezion Geber. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_49"><sup>49</sup>At that time Ahaziah son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “Let my men sail with yours,” but Jehoshaphat refused. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_50"> <sup>50</sup>Then Jehoshaphat rested with his ancestors and was buried with them in the city of David his father. And Jehoram his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ahaziah King of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_51"> <sup>51</sup>Ahaziah son of Ahab became king of Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_52"><sup>52</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, because he followed the ways of his father and mother and of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. </span>
<span class="verse 1vua_22_53"><sup>53</sup>He served and worshiped Baal and aroused the anger of the Lord, the God of Israel, just as his father had done. <br/></span>
