---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>The Birth of Samuel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>There was a certain man from Ramathaim, a Zuphite<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Septuagint and 1 Chron. 6:26-27,33-35; or from Ramathaim Zuphim .">⚓</a> from the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_2"><sup>2</sup>He had two wives; one was called Hannah and the other Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah had none. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>Year after year this man went up from his town to worship and sacrifice to the Lord Almighty at Shiloh, where Hophni and Phinehas, the two sons of Eli, were priests of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_4"><sup>4</sup>Whenever the day came for Elkanah to sacrifice, he would give portions of the meat to his wife Peninnah and to all her sons and daughters. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_5"><sup>5</sup>But to Hannah he gave a double portion because he loved her, and the Lord had closed her womb. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_6"><sup>6</sup>Because the Lord had closed Hannah’s womb, her rival kept provoking her in order to irritate her. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_7"><sup>7</sup>This went on year after year. Whenever Hannah went up to the house of the Lord, her rival provoked her till she wept and would not eat. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_8"><sup>8</sup>Her husband Elkanah would say to her, “Hannah, why are you weeping? Why don’t you eat? Why are you downhearted? Don’t I mean more to you than ten sons?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>Once when they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh, Hannah stood up. Now Eli the priest was sitting on his chair by the doorpost of the Lord’s house. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_10"><sup>10</sup>In her deep anguish Hannah prayed to the Lord, weeping bitterly. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_11"><sup>11</sup>And she made a vow, saying, “Lord Almighty, if you will only look on your servant’s misery and remember me, and not forget your servant but give her a son, then I will give him to the Lord for all the days of his life, and no razor will ever be used on his head.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>As she kept on praying to the Lord, Eli observed her mouth. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_13"><sup>13</sup>Hannah was praying in her heart, and her lips were moving but her voice was not heard. Eli thought she was drunk </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_14"><sup>14</sup>and said to her, “How long are you going to stay drunk? Put away your wine.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Not so, my lord,” Hannah replied, “I am a woman who is deeply troubled. I have not been drinking wine or beer; I was pouring out my soul to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_16"><sup>16</sup>Do not take your servant for a wicked woman; I have been praying here out of my great anguish and grief.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>Eli answered, “Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant you what you have asked of him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>She said, “May your servant find favor in your eyes.” Then she went her way and ate something, and her face was no longer downcast. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>Early the next morning they arose and worshiped before the Lord and then went back to their home at Ramah. Elkanah made love to his wife Hannah, and the Lord remembered her. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_20"><sup>20</sup>So in the course of time Hannah became pregnant and gave birth to a son. She named him Samuel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for heard by God.">⚓</a> saying, “Because I asked the Lord for him.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Hannah Dedicates Samuel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_21"> <sup>21</sup>When her husband Elkanah went up with all his family to offer the annual sacrifice to the Lord and to fulfill his vow, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_22"><sup>22</sup>Hannah did not go. She said to her husband, “After the boy is weaned, I will take him and present him before the Lord, and he will live there always.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls always. I have dedicated him as a Nazirite—all the days of his life.”">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_23"> <sup>23</sup>“Do what seems best to you,” her husband Elkanah told her. “Stay here until you have weaned him; only may the Lord make good his<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls, Septuagint and Syriac your">⚓</a> word.” So the woman stayed at home and nursed her son until she had weaned him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_24"> <sup>24</sup>After he was weaned, she took the boy with her, young as he was, along with a three-year-old bull,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls, Septuagint and Syriac; Masoretic Text with three bulls">⚓</a> an ephah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 36 pounds or about 16 kilograms">⚓</a> of flour and a skin of wine, and brought him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_25"><sup>25</sup>When the bull had been sacrificed, they brought the boy to Eli, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_26"><sup>26</sup>and she said to him, “Pardon me, my lord. As surely as you live, I am the woman who stood here beside you praying to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_27"><sup>27</sup>I prayed for this child, and the Lord has granted me what I asked of him. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_1_28"><sup>28</sup>So now I give him to the Lord. For his whole life he will be given over to the Lord.” And he worshiped the Lord there. <br/></span>
