---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Hannah’s Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Hannah prayed and said: <br/>  “My heart rejoices in the Lord; <br/>   in the Lord my horn<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="here symbolizes strength; also in verse 10.">⚓</a> is lifted high. <br/>  My mouth boasts over my enemies, <br/>   for I delight in your deliverance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_2">  <sup>2</sup>“There is no one holy like the Lord; <br/>   there is no one besides you; <br/>   there is no Rock like our God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_3">  <sup>3</sup>“Do not keep talking so proudly <br/>   or let your mouth speak such arrogance, <br/>  for the Lord is a God who knows, <br/>   and by him deeds are weighed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_4">  <sup>4</sup>“The bows of the warriors are broken, <br/>   but those who stumbled are armed with strength. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_5">  <sup>5</sup>Those who were full hire themselves out for food, <br/>   but those who were hungry are hungry no more. <br/>  She who was barren has borne seven children, <br/>   but she who has had many sons pines away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_6">  <sup>6</sup>“The Lord brings death and makes alive; <br/>   he brings down to the grave and raises up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_7">  <sup>7</sup>The Lord sends poverty and wealth; <br/>   he humbles and he exalts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_8">  <sup>8</sup>He raises the poor from the dust <br/>   and lifts the needy from the ash heap; <br/>  he seats them with princes <br/>   and has them inherit a throne of honor. <br/>  “For the foundations of the earth are the Lord’s; <br/>   on them he has set the world. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_9">  <sup>9</sup>He will guard the feet of his faithful servants, <br/>   but the wicked will be silenced in the place of darkness. <br/>  “It is not by strength that one prevails; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_10">   <sup>10</sup>those who oppose the Lord will be broken. <br/>  The Most High will thunder from heaven; <br/>   the Lord will judge the ends of the earth. <br/>  “He will give strength to his king <br/>   and exalt the horn of his anointed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then Elkanah went home to Ramah, but the boy ministered before the Lord under Eli the priest. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Eli’s Wicked Sons </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_12"> <sup>12</sup>Eli’s sons were scoundrels; they had no regard for the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_13"><sup>13</sup>Now it was the practice of the priests that, whenever any of the people offered a sacrifice, the priest’s servant would come with a three-pronged fork in his hand while the meat was being boiled </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_14"><sup>14</sup>and would plunge the fork into the pan or kettle or caldron or pot. Whatever the fork brought up the priest would take for himself. This is how they treated all the Israelites who came to Shiloh. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_15"><sup>15</sup>But even before the fat was burned, the priest’s servant would come and say to the person who was sacrificing, “Give the priest some meat to roast; he won’t accept boiled meat from you, but only raw.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_16"> <sup>16</sup>If the person said to him, “Let the fat be burned first, and then take whatever you want,” the servant would answer, “No, hand it over now; if you don’t, I’ll take it by force.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>This sin of the young men was very great in the Lord’s sight, for they<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint; Masoretic Text people">⚓</a> were treating the Lord’s offering with contempt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_18"> <sup>18</sup>But Samuel was ministering before the Lord—a boy wearing a linen ephod. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_19"><sup>19</sup>Each year his mother made him a little robe and took it to him when she went up with her husband to offer the annual sacrifice. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_20"><sup>20</sup>Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, saying, “May the Lord give you children by this woman to take the place of the one she prayed for and gave to<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls; Masoretic Text and asked from">⚓</a> the Lord.” Then they would go home. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_21"><sup>21</sup>And the Lord was gracious to Hannah; she gave birth to three sons and two daughters. Meanwhile, the boy Samuel grew up in the presence of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_22"> <sup>22</sup>Now Eli, who was very old, heard about everything his sons were doing to all Israel and how they slept with the women who served at the entrance to the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_23"><sup>23</sup>So he said to them, “Why do you do such things? I hear from all the people about these wicked deeds of yours. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_24"><sup>24</sup>No, my sons; the report I hear spreading among the Lord’s people is not good. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_25"><sup>25</sup>If one person sins against another, God<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the judges">⚓</a> may mediate for the offender; but if anyone sins against the Lord, who will intercede for them?” His sons, however, did not listen to their father’s rebuke, for it was the Lord’s will to put them to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_26"> <sup>26</sup>And the boy Samuel continued to grow in stature and in favor with the Lord and with people. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Prophecy Against the House of Eli </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_27"> <sup>27</sup>Now a man of God came to Eli and said to him, “This is what the Lord says: ‘Did I not clearly reveal myself to your ancestor’s family when they were in Egypt under Pharaoh? </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_28"><sup>28</sup>I chose your ancestor out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, and to wear an ephod in my presence. I also gave your ancestor’s family all the food offerings presented by the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_29"><sup>29</sup>Why do you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew is plural.">⚓</a> scorn my sacrifice and offering that I prescribed for my dwelling? Why do you honor your sons more than me by fattening yourselves on the choice parts of every offering made by my people Israel?’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_30"> <sup>30</sup>“Therefore the Lord, the God of Israel, declares: ‘I promised that members of your family would minister before me forever.’ But now the Lord declares: ‘Far be it from me! Those who honor me I will honor, but those who despise me will be disdained. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_31"><sup>31</sup>The time is coming when I will cut short your strength and the strength of your priestly house, so that no one in it will reach old age, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_32"><sup>32</sup>and you will see distress in my dwelling. Although good will be done to Israel, no one in your family line will ever reach old age. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_33"><sup>33</sup>Every one of you that I do not cut off from serving at my altar I will spare only to destroy your sight and sap your strength, and all your descendants will die in the prime of life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_34"> <sup>34</sup>“ ‘And what happens to your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, will be a sign to you—they will both die on the same day. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_35"><sup>35</sup>I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, who will do according to what is in my heart and mind. I will firmly establish his priestly house, and they will minister before my anointed one always. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_2_36"><sup>36</sup>Then everyone left in your family line will come and bow down before him for a piece of silver and a loaf of bread and plead, “Appoint me to some priestly office so I can have food to eat.” ’ ” <br/></span>
