---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>The Lord Calls Samuel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>The boy Samuel ministered before the Lord under Eli. In those days the word of the Lord was rare; there were not many visions. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_2"> <sup>2</sup>One night Eli, whose eyes were becoming so weak that he could barely see, was lying down in his usual place. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_3"><sup>3</sup>The lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was lying down in the house of the Lord, where the ark of God was. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Then the Lord called Samuel. <br/> Samuel answered, “Here I am.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_5"><sup>5</sup>And he ran to Eli and said, “Here I am; you called me.” <br/> But Eli said, “I did not call; go back and lie down.” So he went and lay down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_6"> <sup>6</sup>Again the Lord called, “Samuel!” And Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, “Here I am; you called me.” <br/> “My son,” Eli said, “I did not call; go back and lie down.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord: The word of the Lord had not yet been revealed to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_8"> <sup>8</sup>A third time the Lord called, “Samuel!” And Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, “Here I am; you called me.” <br/> Then Eli realized that the Lord was calling the boy. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_9"><sup>9</sup>So Eli told Samuel, “Go and lie down, and if he calls you, say, ‘Speak, Lord, for your servant is listening.’ ” So Samuel went and lay down in his place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>The Lord came and stood there, calling as at the other times, “Samuel! Samuel!” <br/> Then Samuel said, “Speak, for your servant is listening.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>And the Lord said to Samuel: “See, I am about to do something in Israel that will make the ears of everyone who hears about it tingle. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_12"><sup>12</sup>At that time I will carry out against Eli everything I spoke against his family—from beginning to end. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_13"><sup>13</sup>For I told him that I would judge his family forever because of the sin he knew about; his sons blasphemed God,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="An ancient Hebrew scribal tradition (see also Septuagint); Masoretic Text sons made themselves contemptible">⚓</a> and he failed to restrain them. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_14"><sup>14</sup>Therefore I swore to the house of Eli, ‘The guilt of Eli’s house will never be atoned for by sacrifice or offering.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>Samuel lay down until morning and then opened the doors of the house of the Lord. He was afraid to tell Eli the vision, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_16"><sup>16</sup>but Eli called him and said, “Samuel, my son.” <br/> Samuel answered, “Here I am.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_17"> <sup>17</sup>“What was it he said to you?” Eli asked. “Do not hide it from me. May God deal with you, be it ever so severely, if you hide from me anything he told you.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_18"><sup>18</sup>So Samuel told him everything, hiding nothing from him. Then Eli said, “He is the Lord; let him do what is good in his eyes.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_19"> <sup>19</sup>The Lord was with Samuel as he grew up, and he let none of Samuel’s words fall to the ground. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_20"><sup>20</sup>And all Israel from Dan to Beersheba recognized that Samuel was attested as a prophet of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_3_21"><sup>21</sup>The Lord continued to appear at Shiloh, and there he revealed himself to Samuel through his word. <br/></span>
