---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>And Samuel’s word came to all Israel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Philistines Capture the Ark </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_1"> Now the Israelites went out to fight against the Philistines. The Israelites camped at Ebenezer, and the Philistines at Aphek. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_2"><sup>2</sup>The Philistines deployed their forces to meet Israel, and as the battle spread, Israel was defeated by the Philistines, who killed about four thousand of them on the battlefield. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_3"><sup>3</sup>When the soldiers returned to camp, the elders of Israel asked, “Why did the Lord bring defeat on us today before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the Lord’s covenant from Shiloh, so that he may go with us and save us from the hand of our enemies.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>So the people sent men to Shiloh, and they brought back the ark of the covenant of the Lord Almighty, who is enthroned between the cherubim. And Eli’s two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_5"> <sup>5</sup>When the ark of the Lord’s covenant came into the camp, all Israel raised such a great shout that the ground shook. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Hearing the uproar, the Philistines asked, “What’s all this shouting in the Hebrew camp?” <br/> When they learned that the ark of the Lord had come into the camp, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_7"><sup>7</sup>the Philistines were afraid. “A god has<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or “Gods have (see Septuagint)">⚓</a> come into the camp,” they said. “Oh no! Nothing like this has happened before. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_8"><sup>8</sup>We’re doomed! Who will deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? They are the gods who struck the Egyptians with all kinds of plagues in the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_9"><sup>9</sup>Be strong, Philistines! Be men, or you will be subject to the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Be men, and fight!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>So the Philistines fought, and the Israelites were defeated and every man fled to his tent. The slaughter was very great; Israel lost thirty thousand foot soldiers. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_11"><sup>11</sup>The ark of God was captured, and Eli’s two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, died. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Death of Eli </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_12"> <sup>12</sup>That same day a Benjamite ran from the battle line and went to Shiloh with his clothes torn and dust on his head. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_13"><sup>13</sup>When he arrived, there was Eli sitting on his chair by the side of the road, watching, because his heart feared for the ark of God. When the man entered the town and told what had happened, the whole town sent up a cry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_14"> <sup>14</sup>Eli heard the outcry and asked, “What is the meaning of this uproar?” <br/> The man hurried over to Eli, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_15"><sup>15</sup>who was ninety-eight years old and whose eyes had failed so that he could not see. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_16"><sup>16</sup>He told Eli, “I have just come from the battle line; I fled from it this very day.” <br/> Eli asked, “What happened, my son?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>The man who brought the news replied, “Israel fled before the Philistines, and the army has suffered heavy losses. Also your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God has been captured.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_18"> <sup>18</sup>When he mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell backward off his chair by the side of the gate. His neck was broken and he died, for he was an old man, and he was heavy. He had led<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judged">⚓</a> Israel forty years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>His daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant and near the time of delivery. When she heard the news that the ark of God had been captured and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she went into labor and gave birth, but was overcome by her labor pains. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_20"><sup>20</sup>As she was dying, the women attending her said, “Don’t despair; you have given birth to a son.” But she did not respond or pay any attention. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>She named the boy Ichabod,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means no glory.">⚓</a> saying, “The Glory has departed from Israel”—because of the capture of the ark of God and the deaths of her father-in-law and her husband. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_4_22"><sup>22</sup>She said, “The Glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been captured.” <br/></span>
