---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>The Ark in Ashdod and Ekron </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>After the Philistines had captured the ark of God, they took it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_2"><sup>2</sup>Then they carried the ark into Dagon’s temple and set it beside Dagon. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_3"><sup>3</sup>When the people of Ashdod rose early the next day, there was Dagon, fallen on his face on the ground before the ark of the Lord! They took Dagon and put him back in his place. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_4"><sup>4</sup>But the following morning when they rose, there was Dagon, fallen on his face on the ground before the ark of the Lord! His head and hands had been broken off and were lying on the threshold; only his body remained. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_5"><sup>5</sup>That is why to this day neither the priests of Dagon nor any others who enter Dagon’s temple at Ashdod step on the threshold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>The Lord’s hand was heavy on the people of Ashdod and its vicinity; he brought devastation on them and afflicted them with tumors.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate tumors. And rats appeared in their land, and there was death and destruction throughout the city">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_7"><sup>7</sup>When the people of Ashdod saw what was happening, they said, “The ark of the god of Israel must not stay here with us, because his hand is heavy on us and on Dagon our god.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_8"><sup>8</sup>So they called together all the rulers of the Philistines and asked them, “What shall we do with the ark of the god of Israel?” <br/> They answered, “Have the ark of the god of Israel moved to Gath.” So they moved the ark of the God of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_9"> <sup>9</sup>But after they had moved it, the Lord’s hand was against that city, throwing it into a great panic. He afflicted the people of the city, both young and old, with an outbreak of tumors.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or with tumors in the groin (see Septuagint)">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_10"><sup>10</sup>So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. <br/> As the ark of God was entering Ekron, the people of Ekron cried out, “They have brought the ark of the god of Israel around to us to kill us and our people.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_11"><sup>11</sup>So they called together all the rulers of the Philistines and said, “Send the ark of the god of Israel away; let it go back to its own place, or it<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or he">⚓</a> will kill us and our people.” For death had filled the city with panic; God’s hand was very heavy on it. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_5_12"><sup>12</sup>Those who did not die were afflicted with tumors, and the outcry of the city went up to heaven. <br/></span>
