---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>So the men of Kiriath Jearim came and took up the ark of the Lord. They brought it to Abinadab’s house on the hill and consecrated Eleazar his son to guard the ark of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_2"><sup>2</sup>The ark remained at Kiriath Jearim a long time—twenty years in all. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Samuel Subdues the Philistines at Mizpah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_2"> Then all the people of Israel turned back to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_3"><sup>3</sup>So Samuel said to all the Israelites, “If you are returning to the Lord with all your hearts, then rid yourselves of the foreign gods and the Ashtoreths and commit yourselves to the Lord and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_4"><sup>4</sup>So the Israelites put away their Baals and Ashtoreths, and served the Lord only. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then Samuel said, “Assemble all Israel at Mizpah, and I will intercede with the Lord for you.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_6"><sup>6</sup>When they had assembled at Mizpah, they drew water and poured it out before the Lord. On that day they fasted and there they confessed, “We have sinned against the Lord.” Now Samuel was serving as leader<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judge ; also in verse 15">⚓</a> of Israel at Mizpah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_7"> <sup>7</sup>When the Philistines heard that Israel had assembled at Mizpah, the rulers of the Philistines came up to attack them. When the Israelites heard of it, they were afraid because of the Philistines. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_8"><sup>8</sup>They said to Samuel, “Do not stop crying out to the Lord our God for us, that he may rescue us from the hand of the Philistines.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_9"><sup>9</sup>Then Samuel took a suckling lamb and sacrificed it as a whole burnt offering to the Lord. He cried out to the Lord on Israel’s behalf, and the Lord answered him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_10"> <sup>10</sup>While Samuel was sacrificing the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to engage Israel in battle. But that day the Lord thundered with loud thunder against the Philistines and threw them into such a panic that they were routed before the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_11"><sup>11</sup>The men of Israel rushed out of Mizpah and pursued the Philistines, slaughtering them along the way to a point below Beth Kar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then Samuel took a stone and set it up between Mizpah and Shen. He named it Ebenezer,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means stone of help.">⚓</a> saying, “Thus far the Lord has helped us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>So the Philistines were subdued and they stopped invading Israel’s territory. Throughout Samuel’s lifetime, the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_14"><sup>14</sup>The towns from Ekron to Gath that the Philistines had captured from Israel were restored to Israel, and Israel delivered the neighboring territory from the hands of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_15"> <sup>15</sup>Samuel continued as Israel’s leader all the days of his life. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_16"><sup>16</sup>From year to year he went on a circuit from Bethel to Gilgal to Mizpah, judging Israel in all those places. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_7_17"><sup>17</sup>But he always went back to Ramah, where his home was, and there he also held court for Israel. And he built an altar there to the Lord. <br/></span>
