---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>Israel Asks for a King </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Samuel grew old, he appointed his sons as Israel’s leaders.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judges">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_2"><sup>2</sup>The name of his firstborn was Joel and the name of his second was Abijah, and they served at Beersheba. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_3"><sup>3</sup>But his sons did not follow his ways. They turned aside after dishonest gain and accepted bribes and perverted justice. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_4"> <sup>4</sup>So all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_5"><sup>5</sup>They said to him, “You are old, and your sons do not follow your ways; now appoint a king to lead<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judge ; also in verses 6 and 20">⚓</a> us, such as all the other nations have.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_6"> <sup>6</sup>But when they said, “Give us a king to lead us,” this displeased Samuel; so he prayed to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_7"><sup>7</sup>And the Lord told him: “Listen to all that the people are saying to you; it is not you they have rejected, but they have rejected me as their king. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_8"><sup>8</sup>As they have done from the day I brought them up out of Egypt until this day, forsaking me and serving other gods, so they are doing to you. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_9"><sup>9</sup>Now listen to them; but warn them solemnly and let them know what the king who will reign over them will claim as his rights.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_10"> <sup>10</sup>Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who were asking him for a king. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_11"><sup>11</sup>He said, “This is what the king who will reign over you will claim as his rights: He will take your sons and make them serve with his chariots and horses, and they will run in front of his chariots. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_12"><sup>12</sup>Some he will assign to be commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and others to plow his ground and reap his harvest, and still others to make weapons of war and equipment for his chariots. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_13"><sup>13</sup>He will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_14"><sup>14</sup>He will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive groves and give them to his attendants. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_15"><sup>15</sup>He will take a tenth of your grain and of your vintage and give it to his officials and attendants. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_16"><sup>16</sup>Your male and female servants and the best of your cattle<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew young men">⚓</a> and donkeys he will take for his own use. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_17"><sup>17</sup>He will take a tenth of your flocks, and you yourselves will become his slaves. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_18"><sup>18</sup>When that day comes, you will cry out for relief from the king you have chosen, but the Lord will not answer you in that day.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_19"> <sup>19</sup>But the people refused to listen to Samuel. “No!” they said. “We want a king over us. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_20"><sup>20</sup>Then we will be like all the other nations, with a king to lead us and to go out before us and fight our battles.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_21"> <sup>21</sup>When Samuel heard all that the people said, he repeated it before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_8_22"><sup>22</sup>The Lord answered, “Listen to them and give them a king.” <br/> Then Samuel said to the Israelites, “Everyone go back to your own town.” <br/></span>
