---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Samuel took a flask of olive oil and poured it on Saul’s head and kissed him, saying, “Has not the Lord anointed you ruler over his inheritance?<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate over his people Israel? You will reign over the Lord’s people and save them from the power of their enemies round about. And this will be a sign to you that the Lordhas anointed you ruler over his inheritance:">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_2"><sup>2</sup>When you leave me today, you will meet two men near Rachel’s tomb, at Zelzah on the border of Benjamin. They will say to you, ‘The donkeys you set out to look for have been found. And now your father has stopped thinking about them and is worried about you. He is asking, “What shall I do about my son?” ’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_3"> <sup>3</sup>“Then you will go on from there until you reach the great tree of Tabor. Three men going up to worship God at Bethel will meet you there. One will be carrying three young goats, another three loaves of bread, and another a skin of wine. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_4"><sup>4</sup>They will greet you and offer you two loaves of bread, which you will accept from them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_5"> <sup>5</sup>“After that you will go to Gibeah of God, where there is a Philistine outpost. As you approach the town, you will meet a procession of prophets coming down from the high place with lyres, timbrels, pipes and harps being played before them, and they will be prophesying. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_6"><sup>6</sup>The Spirit of the Lord will come powerfully upon you, and you will prophesy with them; and you will be changed into a different person. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_7"><sup>7</sup>Once these signs are fulfilled, do whatever your hand finds to do, for God is with you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Go down ahead of me to Gilgal. I will surely come down to you to sacrifice burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, but you must wait seven days until I come to you and tell you what you are to do.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Saul Made King </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_9"> <sup>9</sup>As Saul turned to leave Samuel, God changed Saul’s heart, and all these signs were fulfilled that day. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_10"><sup>10</sup>When he and his servant arrived at Gibeah, a procession of prophets met him; the Spirit of God came powerfully upon him, and he joined in their prophesying. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_11"><sup>11</sup>When all those who had formerly known him saw him prophesying with the prophets, they asked each other, “What is this that has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>A man who lived there answered, “And who is their father?” So it became a saying: “Is Saul also among the prophets?” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_13"><sup>13</sup>After Saul stopped prophesying, he went to the high place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_14"> <sup>14</sup>Now Saul’s uncle asked him and his servant, “Where have you been?” <br/> “Looking for the donkeys,” he said. “But when we saw they were not to be found, we went to Samuel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_15"> <sup>15</sup>Saul’s uncle said, “Tell me what Samuel said to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>Saul replied, “He assured us that the donkeys had been found.” But he did not tell his uncle what Samuel had said about the kingship. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_17"> <sup>17</sup>Samuel summoned the people of Israel to the Lord at Mizpah </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_18"><sup>18</sup>and said to them, “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: ‘I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you from the power of Egypt and all the kingdoms that oppressed you.’ </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_19"><sup>19</sup>But you have now rejected your God, who saves you out of all your disasters and calamities. And you have said, ‘No, appoint a king over us.’ So now present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and clans.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_20"> <sup>20</sup>When Samuel had all Israel come forward by tribes, the tribe of Benjamin was taken by lot. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_21"><sup>21</sup>Then he brought forward the tribe of Benjamin, clan by clan, and Matri’s clan was taken. Finally Saul son of Kish was taken. But when they looked for him, he was not to be found. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_22"><sup>22</sup>So they inquired further of the Lord, “Has the man come here yet?” <br/> And the Lord said, “Yes, he has hidden himself among the supplies.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_23"> <sup>23</sup>They ran and brought him out, and as he stood among the people he was a head taller than any of the others. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_24"><sup>24</sup>Samuel said to all the people, “Do you see the man the Lord has chosen? There is no one like him among all the people.” <br/> Then the people shouted, “Long live the king!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_25"> <sup>25</sup>Samuel explained to the people the rights and duties of kingship. He wrote them down on a scroll and deposited it before the Lord. Then Samuel dismissed the people to go to their own homes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_26"> <sup>26</sup>Saul also went to his home in Gibeah, accompanied by valiant men whose hearts God had touched. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_10_27"><sup>27</sup>But some scoundrels said, “How can this fellow save us?” They despised him and brought him no gifts. But Saul kept silent. <br/></span>
