---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>Saul Rescues the City of Jabesh </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Nahash<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls gifts. Now Nahash king of the Ammonites oppressed the Gadites and Reubenites severely. He gouged out all their right eyes and struck terror and dread in Israel. Not a man remained among the Israelites beyond the Jordan whose right eye was not gouged out by Nahash king of the Ammonites, except that seven thousand men fled from the Ammonites and entered Jabesh Gilead. About a month later, 1Nahash">⚓</a> the Ammonite went up and besieged Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to him, “Make a treaty with us, and we will be subject to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_2"> <sup>2</sup>But Nahash the Ammonite replied, “I will make a treaty with you only on the condition that I gouge out the right eye of every one of you and so bring disgrace on all Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_3"> <sup>3</sup>The elders of Jabesh said to him, “Give us seven days so we can send messengers throughout Israel; if no one comes to rescue us, we will surrender to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>When the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and reported these terms to the people, they all wept aloud. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_5"><sup>5</sup>Just then Saul was returning from the fields, behind his oxen, and he asked, “What is wrong with everyone? Why are they weeping?” Then they repeated to him what the men of Jabesh had said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_6"> <sup>6</sup>When Saul heard their words, the Spirit of God came powerfully upon him, and he burned with anger. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_7"><sup>7</sup>He took a pair of oxen, cut them into pieces, and sent the pieces by messengers throughout Israel, proclaiming, “This is what will be done to the oxen of anyone who does not follow Saul and Samuel.” Then the terror of the Lord fell on the people, and they came out together as one. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_8"><sup>8</sup>When Saul mustered them at Bezek, the men of Israel numbered three hundred thousand and those of Judah thirty thousand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>They told the messengers who had come, “Say to the men of Jabesh Gilead, ‘By the time the sun is hot tomorrow, you will be rescued.’ ” When the messengers went and reported this to the men of Jabesh, they were elated. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_10"><sup>10</sup>They said to the Ammonites, “Tomorrow we will surrender to you, and you can do to us whatever you like.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_11"> <sup>11</sup>The next day Saul separated his men into three divisions; during the last watch of the night they broke into the camp of the Ammonites and slaughtered them until the heat of the day. Those who survived were scattered, so that no two of them were left together. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Saul Confirmed as King </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_12"> <sup>12</sup>The people then said to Samuel, “Who was it that asked, ‘Shall Saul reign over us?’ Turn these men over to us so that we may put them to death.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>But Saul said, “No one will be put to death today, for this day the Lord has rescued Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then Samuel said to the people, “Come, let us go to Gilgal and there renew the kingship.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_11_15"><sup>15</sup>So all the people went to Gilgal and made Saul king in the presence of the Lord. There they sacrificed fellowship offerings before the Lord, and Saul and all the Israelites held a great celebration. <br/></span>
