---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Samuel Rebukes Saul </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>Saul was thirty<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A few late manuscripts of the Septuagint; Hebrew does not have thirty.">⚓</a> years old when he became king, and he reigned over Israel forty-<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probable reading of the original Hebrew text (see Acts 13:21); Masoretic Text does not have forty- .">⚓</a> two years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_2"> <sup>2</sup>Saul chose three thousand men from Israel; two thousand were with him at Mikmash and in the hill country of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin. The rest of the men he sent back to their homes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_3"> <sup>3</sup>Jonathan attacked the Philistine outpost at Geba, and the Philistines heard about it. Then Saul had the trumpet blown throughout the land and said, “Let the Hebrews hear!” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_4"><sup>4</sup>So all Israel heard the news: “Saul has attacked the Philistine outpost, and now Israel has become obnoxious to the Philistines.” And the people were summoned to join Saul at Gilgal. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_5"> <sup>5</sup>The Philistines assembled to fight Israel, with three thousand<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac; Hebrew thirty thousand">⚓</a> chariots, six thousand charioteers, and soldiers as numerous as the sand on the seashore. They went up and camped at Mikmash, east of Beth Aven. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_6"><sup>6</sup>When the Israelites saw that their situation was critical and that their army was hard pressed, they hid in caves and thickets, among the rocks, and in pits and cisterns. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_7"><sup>7</sup>Some Hebrews even crossed the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. <br/> Saul remained at Gilgal, and all the troops with him were quaking with fear. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_8"><sup>8</sup>He waited seven days, the time set by Samuel; but Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and Saul’s men began to scatter. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_9"><sup>9</sup>So he said, “Bring me the burnt offering and the fellowship offerings.” And Saul offered up the burnt offering. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_10"><sup>10</sup>Just as he finished making the offering, Samuel arrived, and Saul went out to greet him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_11"> <sup>11</sup>“What have you done?” asked Samuel. <br/> Saul replied, “When I saw that the men were scattering, and that you did not come at the set time, and that the Philistines were assembling at Mikmash, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_12"><sup>12</sup>I thought, ‘Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the Lord’s favor.’ So I felt compelled to offer the burnt offering.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_13"> <sup>13</sup>“You have done a foolish thing,” Samuel said. “You have not kept the command the Lord your God gave you; if you had, he would have established your kingdom over Israel for all time. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_14"><sup>14</sup>But now your kingdom will not endure; the Lord has sought out a man after his own heart and appointed him ruler of his people, because you have not kept the Lord’s command.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Samuel left Gilgal<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint Gilgal and went his way; the rest of the people went after Saul to meet the army, and they went out of Gilgal">⚓</a> and went up to Gibeah in Benjamin, and Saul counted the men who were with him. They numbered about six hundred. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Israel Without Weapons </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_16"> <sup>16</sup>Saul and his son Jonathan and the men with them were staying in Gibeah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Two Hebrew manuscripts; most Hebrew manuscripts Geba, a variant of Gibeah">⚓</a> in Benjamin, while the Philistines camped at Mikmash. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_17"><sup>17</sup>Raiding parties went out from the Philistine camp in three detachments. One turned toward Ophrah in the vicinity of Shual, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_18"><sup>18</sup>another toward Beth Horon, and the third toward the borderland overlooking the Valley of Zeboyim facing the wilderness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_19"> <sup>19</sup>Not a blacksmith could be found in the whole land of Israel, because the Philistines had said, “Otherwise the Hebrews will make swords or spears!” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_20"><sup>20</sup>So all Israel went down to the Philistines to have their plow points, mattocks, axes and sickles<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew plow points">⚓</a> sharpened. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_21"><sup>21</sup>The price was two-thirds of a shekel<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1/4 ounce or about 8 grams">⚓</a> for sharpening plow points and mattocks, and a third of a shekel<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1/8 ounce or about 4 grams">⚓</a> for sharpening forks and axes and for repointing goads. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_22"> <sup>22</sup>So on the day of the battle not a soldier with Saul and Jonathan had a sword or spear in his hand; only Saul and his son Jonathan had them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_13_23"> <sup>23</sup>Now a detachment of Philistines had gone out to the pass at Mikmash. <br/></span>
