---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>Jonathan Attacks the Philistines </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>One day Jonathan son of Saul said to his young armor-bearer, “Come, let’s go over to the Philistine outpost on the other side.” But he did not tell his father. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_2"> <sup>2</sup>Saul was staying on the outskirts of Gibeah under a pomegranate tree in Migron. With him were about six hundred men, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_3"><sup>3</sup>among whom was Ahijah, who was wearing an ephod. He was a son of Ichabod’s brother Ahitub son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the Lord’s priest in Shiloh. No one was aware that Jonathan had left. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_4"> <sup>4</sup>On each side of the pass that Jonathan intended to cross to reach the Philistine outpost was a cliff; one was called Bozez and the other Seneh. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_5"><sup>5</sup>One cliff stood to the north toward Mikmash, the other to the south toward Geba. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_6"> <sup>6</sup>Jonathan said to his young armor-bearer, “Come, let’s go over to the outpost of those uncircumcised men. Perhaps the Lord will act in our behalf. Nothing can hinder the Lord from saving, whether by many or by few.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Do all that you have in mind,” his armor-bearer said. “Go ahead; I am with you heart and soul.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_8"> <sup>8</sup>Jonathan said, “Come on, then; we will cross over toward them and let them see us. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_9"><sup>9</sup>If they say to us, ‘Wait there until we come to you,’ we will stay where we are and not go up to them. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_10"><sup>10</sup>But if they say, ‘Come up to us,’ we will climb up, because that will be our sign that the Lord has given them into our hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_11"> <sup>11</sup>So both of them showed themselves to the Philistine outpost. “Look!” said the Philistines. “The Hebrews are crawling out of the holes they were hiding in.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_12"><sup>12</sup>The men of the outpost shouted to Jonathan and his armor-bearer, “Come up to us and we’ll teach you a lesson.” <br/> So Jonathan said to his armor-bearer, “Climb up after me; the Lord has given them into the hand of Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>Jonathan climbed up, using his hands and feet, with his armor-bearer right behind him. The Philistines fell before Jonathan, and his armor-bearer followed and killed behind him. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_14"><sup>14</sup>In that first attack Jonathan and his armor-bearer killed some twenty men in an area of about half an acre. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Israel Routs the Philistines </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then panic struck the whole army—those in the camp and field, and those in the outposts and raiding parties—and the ground shook. It was a panic sent by God.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or a terrible panic">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_16"> <sup>16</sup>Saul’s lookouts at Gibeah in Benjamin saw the army melting away in all directions. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_17"><sup>17</sup>Then Saul said to the men who were with him, “Muster the forces and see who has left us.” When they did, it was Jonathan and his armor-bearer who were not there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_18"> <sup>18</sup>Saul said to Ahijah, “Bring the ark of God.” (At that time it was with the Israelites.)<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint “Bring the ephod.” (At that time he wore the ephod before the Israelites.)">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_19"><sup>19</sup>While Saul was talking to the priest, the tumult in the Philistine camp increased more and more. So Saul said to the priest, “Withdraw your hand.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then Saul and all his men assembled and went to the battle. They found the Philistines in total confusion, striking each other with their swords. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_21"><sup>21</sup>Those Hebrews who had previously been with the Philistines and had gone up with them to their camp went over to the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_22"><sup>22</sup>When all the Israelites who had hidden in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines were on the run, they joined the battle in hot pursuit. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_23"><sup>23</sup>So on that day the Lord saved Israel, and the battle moved on beyond Beth Aven. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jonathan Eats Honey </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_24"> <sup>24</sup>Now the Israelites were in distress that day, because Saul had bound the people under an oath, saying, “Cursed be anyone who eats food before evening comes, before I have avenged myself on my enemies!” So none of the troops tasted food. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_25"> <sup>25</sup>The entire army entered the woods, and there was honey on the ground. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_26"><sup>26</sup>When they went into the woods, they saw the honey oozing out; yet no one put his hand to his mouth, because they feared the oath. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_27"><sup>27</sup>But Jonathan had not heard that his father had bound the people with the oath, so he reached out the end of the staff that was in his hand and dipped it into the honeycomb. He raised his hand to his mouth, and his eyes brightened.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or his strength was renewed ; similarly in verse 29">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_28"><sup>28</sup>Then one of the soldiers told him, “Your father bound the army under a strict oath, saying, ‘Cursed be anyone who eats food today!’ That is why the men are faint.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_29"> <sup>29</sup>Jonathan said, “My father has made trouble for the country. See how my eyes brightened when I tasted a little of this honey. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_30"><sup>30</sup>How much better it would have been if the men had eaten today some of the plunder they took from their enemies. Would not the slaughter of the Philistines have been even greater?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_31"> <sup>31</sup>That day, after the Israelites had struck down the Philistines from Mikmash to Aijalon, they were exhausted. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_32"><sup>32</sup>They pounced on the plunder and, taking sheep, cattle and calves, they butchered them on the ground and ate them, together with the blood. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_33"><sup>33</sup>Then someone said to Saul, “Look, the men are sinning against the Lord by eating meat that has blood in it.” <br/> “You have broken faith,” he said. “Roll a large stone over here at once.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_34"><sup>34</sup>Then he said, “Go out among the men and tell them, ‘Each of you bring me your cattle and sheep, and slaughter them here and eat them. Do not sin against the Lord by eating meat with blood still in it.’ ” <br/> So everyone brought his ox that night and slaughtered it there. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_35"><sup>35</sup>Then Saul built an altar to the Lord; it was the first time he had done this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_36"> <sup>36</sup>Saul said, “Let us go down and pursue the Philistines by night and plunder them till dawn, and let us not leave one of them alive.” <br/> “Do whatever seems best to you,” they replied. <br/> But the priest said, “Let us inquire of God here.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_37"> <sup>37</sup>So Saul asked God, “Shall I go down and pursue the Philistines? Will you give them into Israel’s hand?” But God did not answer him that day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_38"> <sup>38</sup>Saul therefore said, “Come here, all you who are leaders of the army, and let us find out what sin has been committed today. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_39"><sup>39</sup>As surely as the Lord who rescues Israel lives, even if the guilt lies with my son Jonathan, he must die.” But not one of them said a word. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_40"> <sup>40</sup>Saul then said to all the Israelites, “You stand over there; I and Jonathan my son will stand over here.” <br/> “Do what seems best to you,” they replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_41"> <sup>41</sup>Then Saul prayed to the Lord, the God of Israel, “Why have you not answered your servant today? If the fault is in me or my son Jonathan, respond with Urim, but if the men of Israel are at fault,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew does not have “Why … at fault.">⚓</a> respond with Thummim.” Jonathan and Saul were taken by lot, and the men were cleared. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_42"><sup>42</sup>Saul said, “Cast the lot between me and Jonathan my son.” And Jonathan was taken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_43"> <sup>43</sup>Then Saul said to Jonathan, “Tell me what you have done.” <br/> So Jonathan told him, “I tasted a little honey with the end of my staff. And now I must die!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_44"> <sup>44</sup>Saul said, “May God deal with me, be it ever so severely, if you do not die, Jonathan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_45"> <sup>45</sup>But the men said to Saul, “Should Jonathan die—he who has brought about this great deliverance in Israel? Never! As surely as the Lord lives, not a hair of his head will fall to the ground, for he did this today with God’s help.” So the men rescued Jonathan, and he was not put to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_46"> <sup>46</sup>Then Saul stopped pursuing the Philistines, and they withdrew to their own land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_47"> <sup>47</sup>After Saul had assumed rule over Israel, he fought against their enemies on every side: Moab, the Ammonites, Edom, the kings<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint king">⚓</a> of Zobah, and the Philistines. Wherever he turned, he inflicted punishment on them.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint he was victorious">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_48"><sup>48</sup>He fought valiantly and defeated the Amalekites, delivering Israel from the hands of those who had plundered them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Saul’s Family </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_49"> <sup>49</sup>Saul’s sons were Jonathan, Ishvi and Malki-Shua. The name of his older daughter was Merab, and that of the younger was Michal. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_50"><sup>50</sup>His wife’s name was Ahinoam daughter of Ahimaaz. The name of the commander of Saul’s army was Abner son of Ner, and Ner was Saul’s uncle. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_51"><sup>51</sup>Saul’s father Kish and Abner’s father Ner were sons of Abiel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_14_52"> <sup>52</sup>All the days of Saul there was bitter war with the Philistines, and whenever Saul saw a mighty or brave man, he took him into his service. <br/></span>
