---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Samuel Anoints David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord said to Samuel, “How long will you mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him as king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and be on your way; I am sending you to Jesse of Bethlehem. I have chosen one of his sons to be king.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_2"> <sup>2</sup>But Samuel said, “How can I go? If Saul hears about it, he will kill me.” <br/> The Lord said, “Take a heifer with you and say, ‘I have come to sacrifice to the Lord.’ </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_3"><sup>3</sup>Invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what to do. You are to anoint for me the one I indicate.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_4"> <sup>4</sup>Samuel did what the Lord said. When he arrived at Bethlehem, the elders of the town trembled when they met him. They asked, “Do you come in peace?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_5"> <sup>5</sup>Samuel replied, “Yes, in peace; I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Consecrate yourselves and come to the sacrifice with me.” Then he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_6"> <sup>6</sup>When they arrived, Samuel saw Eliab and thought, “Surely the Lord’s anointed stands here before the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_7"> <sup>7</sup>But the Lord said to Samuel, “Do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. The Lord does not look at the things people look at. People look at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Jesse called Abinadab and had him pass in front of Samuel. But Samuel said, “The Lord has not chosen this one either.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_9"><sup>9</sup>Jesse then had Shammah pass by, but Samuel said, “Nor has the Lord chosen this one.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_10"><sup>10</sup>Jesse had seven of his sons pass before Samuel, but Samuel said to him, “The Lord has not chosen these.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_11"><sup>11</sup>So he asked Jesse, “Are these all the sons you have?” <br/> “There is still the youngest,” Jesse answered. “He is tending the sheep.” <br/> Samuel said, “Send for him; we will not sit down until he arrives.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_12"> <sup>12</sup>So he sent for him and had him brought in. He was glowing with health and had a fine appearance and handsome features. <br/> Then the Lord said, “Rise and anoint him; this is the one.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_13"> <sup>13</sup>So Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the presence of his brothers, and from that day on the Spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon David. Samuel then went to Ramah. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David in Saul’s Service </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_14"> <sup>14</sup>Now the Spirit of the Lord had departed from Saul, and an evil<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and a harmful ; similarly in verses 15, 16 and 23">⚓</a> spirit from the Lord tormented him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_15"> <sup>15</sup>Saul’s attendants said to him, “See, an evil spirit from God is tormenting you. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_16"><sup>16</sup>Let our lord command his servants here to search for someone who can play the lyre. He will play when the evil spirit from God comes on you, and you will feel better.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_17"> <sup>17</sup>So Saul said to his attendants, “Find someone who plays well and bring him to me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_18"> <sup>18</sup>One of the servants answered, “I have seen a son of Jesse of Bethlehem who knows how to play the lyre. He is a brave man and a warrior. He speaks well and is a fine-looking man. And the Lord is with him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, “Send me your son David, who is with the sheep.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_20"><sup>20</sup>So Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, a skin of wine and a young goat and sent them with his son David to Saul. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_21"> <sup>21</sup>David came to Saul and entered his service. Saul liked him very much, and David became one of his armor-bearers. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_22"><sup>22</sup>Then Saul sent word to Jesse, saying, “Allow David to remain in my service, for I am pleased with him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_16_23"> <sup>23</sup>Whenever the spirit from God came on Saul, David would take up his lyre and play. Then relief would come to Saul; he would feel better, and the evil spirit would leave him. <br/></span>
