---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>Saul Tries to Kill David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>Saul told his son Jonathan and all the attendants to kill David. But Jonathan had taken a great liking to David </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_2"><sup>2</sup>and warned him, “My father Saul is looking for a chance to kill you. Be on your guard tomorrow morning; go into hiding and stay there. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_3"><sup>3</sup>I will go out and stand with my father in the field where you are. I’ll speak to him about you and will tell you what I find out.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_4"> <sup>4</sup>Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him, “Let not the king do wrong to his servant David; he has not wronged you, and what he has done has benefited you greatly. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_5"><sup>5</sup>He took his life in his hands when he killed the Philistine. The Lord won a great victory for all Israel, and you saw it and were glad. Why then would you do wrong to an innocent man like David by killing him for no reason?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_6"> <sup>6</sup>Saul listened to Jonathan and took this oath: “As surely as the Lord lives, David will not be put to death.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_7"> <sup>7</sup>So Jonathan called David and told him the whole conversation. He brought him to Saul, and David was with Saul as before. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_8"> <sup>8</sup>Once more war broke out, and David went out and fought the Philistines. He struck them with such force that they fled before him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_9"> <sup>9</sup>But an evil<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or But a harmful">⚓</a> spirit from the Lord came on Saul as he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand. While David was playing the lyre, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_10"><sup>10</sup>Saul tried to pin him to the wall with his spear, but David eluded him as Saul drove the spear into the wall. That night David made good his escape. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_11"> <sup>11</sup>Saul sent men to David’s house to watch it and to kill him in the morning. But Michal, David’s wife, warned him, “If you don’t run for your life tonight, tomorrow you’ll be killed.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_12"><sup>12</sup>So Michal let David down through a window, and he fled and escaped. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_13"><sup>13</sup>Then Michal took an idol and laid it on the bed, covering it with a garment and putting some goats’ hair at the head. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_14"> <sup>14</sup>When Saul sent the men to capture David, Michal said, “He is ill.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Saul sent the men back to see David and told them, “Bring him up to me in his bed so that I may kill him.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_16"><sup>16</sup>But when the men entered, there was the idol in the bed, and at the head was some goats’ hair. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_17"> <sup>17</sup>Saul said to Michal, “Why did you deceive me like this and send my enemy away so that he escaped?” <br/> Michal told him, “He said to me, ‘Let me get away. Why should I kill you?’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_18"> <sup>18</sup>When David had fled and made his escape, he went to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went to Naioth and stayed there. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_19"><sup>19</sup>Word came to Saul: “David is in Naioth at Ramah”; </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_20"><sup>20</sup>so he sent men to capture him. But when they saw a group of prophets prophesying, with Samuel standing there as their leader, the Spirit of God came on Saul’s men, and they also prophesied. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_21"><sup>21</sup>Saul was told about it, and he sent more men, and they prophesied too. Saul sent men a third time, and they also prophesied. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_22"><sup>22</sup>Finally, he himself left for Ramah and went to the great cistern at Seku. And he asked, “Where are Samuel and David?” <br/> “Over in Naioth at Ramah,” they said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_23"> <sup>23</sup>So Saul went to Naioth at Ramah. But the Spirit of God came even on him, and he walked along prophesying until he came to Naioth. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_19_24"><sup>24</sup>He stripped off his garments, and he too prophesied in Samuel’s presence. He lay naked all that day and all that night. This is why people say, “Is Saul also among the prophets?” <br/></span>
