---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>David and Jonathan </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then David fled from Naioth at Ramah and went to Jonathan and asked, “What have I done? What is my crime? How have I wronged your father, that he is trying to kill me?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_2"> <sup>2</sup>“Never!” Jonathan replied. “You are not going to die! Look, my father doesn’t do anything, great or small, without letting me know. Why would he hide this from me? It isn’t so!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_3"> <sup>3</sup>But David took an oath and said, “Your father knows very well that I have found favor in your eyes, and he has said to himself, ‘Jonathan must not know this or he will be grieved.’ Yet as surely as the Lord lives and as you live, there is only a step between me and death.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_4"> <sup>4</sup>Jonathan said to David, “Whatever you want me to do, I’ll do for you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_5"> <sup>5</sup>So David said, “Look, tomorrow is the New Moon feast, and I am supposed to dine with the king; but let me go and hide in the field until the evening of the day after tomorrow. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_6"><sup>6</sup>If your father misses me at all, tell him, ‘David earnestly asked my permission to hurry to Bethlehem, his hometown, because an annual sacrifice is being made there for his whole clan.’ </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_7"><sup>7</sup>If he says, ‘Very well,’ then your servant is safe. But if he loses his temper, you can be sure that he is determined to harm me. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_8"><sup>8</sup>As for you, show kindness to your servant, for you have brought him into a covenant with you before the Lord. If I am guilty, then kill me yourself! Why hand me over to your father?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Never!” Jonathan said. “If I had the least inkling that my father was determined to harm you, wouldn’t I tell you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_10"> <sup>10</sup>David asked, “Who will tell me if your father answers you harshly?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Come,” Jonathan said, “let’s go out into the field.” So they went there together. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then Jonathan said to David, “I swear by the Lord, the God of Israel, that I will surely sound out my father by this time the day after tomorrow! If he is favorably disposed toward you, will I not send you word and let you know? </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_13"><sup>13</sup>But if my father intends to harm you, may the Lord deal with Jonathan, be it ever so severely, if I do not let you know and send you away in peace. May the Lord be with you as he has been with my father. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_14"><sup>14</sup>But show me unfailing kindness like the Lord’s kindness as long as I live, so that I may not be killed, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_15"><sup>15</sup>and do not ever cut off your kindness from my family—not even when the Lord has cut off every one of David’s enemies from the face of the earth.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_16"> <sup>16</sup>So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, “May the Lord call David’s enemies to account.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_17"><sup>17</sup>And Jonathan had David reaffirm his oath out of love for him, because he loved him as he loved himself. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Jonathan said to David, “Tomorrow is the New Moon feast. You will be missed, because your seat will be empty. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_19"><sup>19</sup>The day after tomorrow, toward evening, go to the place where you hid when this trouble began, and wait by the stone Ezel. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_20"><sup>20</sup>I will shoot three arrows to the side of it, as though I were shooting at a target. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_21"><sup>21</sup>Then I will send a boy and say, ‘Go, find the arrows.’ If I say to him, ‘Look, the arrows are on this side of you; bring them here,’ then come, because, as surely as the Lord lives, you are safe; there is no danger. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_22"><sup>22</sup>But if I say to the boy, ‘Look, the arrows are beyond you,’ then you must go, because the Lord has sent you away. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_23"><sup>23</sup>And about the matter you and I discussed—remember, the Lord is witness between you and me forever.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_24"> <sup>24</sup>So David hid in the field, and when the New Moon feast came, the king sat down to eat. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_25"><sup>25</sup>He sat in his customary place by the wall, opposite Jonathan,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew wall. Jonathan arose">⚓</a> and Abner sat next to Saul, but David’s place was empty. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_26"><sup>26</sup>Saul said nothing that day, for he thought, “Something must have happened to David to make him ceremonially unclean—surely he is unclean.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_27"><sup>27</sup>But the next day, the second day of the month, David’s place was empty again. Then Saul said to his son Jonathan, “Why hasn’t the son of Jesse come to the meal, either yesterday or today?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_28"> <sup>28</sup>Jonathan answered, “David earnestly asked me for permission to go to Bethlehem. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_29"><sup>29</sup>He said, ‘Let me go, because our family is observing a sacrifice in the town and my brother has ordered me to be there. If I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away to see my brothers.’ That is why he has not come to the king’s table.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_30"> <sup>30</sup>Saul’s anger flared up at Jonathan and he said to him, “You son of a perverse and rebellious woman! Don’t I know that you have sided with the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of the mother who bore you? </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_31"><sup>31</sup>As long as the son of Jesse lives on this earth, neither you nor your kingdom will be established. Now send someone to bring him to me, for he must die!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_32"> <sup>32</sup>“Why should he be put to death? What has he done?” Jonathan asked his father. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_33"><sup>33</sup>But Saul hurled his spear at him to kill him. Then Jonathan knew that his father intended to kill David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_34"> <sup>34</sup>Jonathan got up from the table in fierce anger; on that second day of the feast he did not eat, because he was grieved at his father’s shameful treatment of David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_35"> <sup>35</sup>In the morning Jonathan went out to the field for his meeting with David. He had a small boy with him, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_36"><sup>36</sup>and he said to the boy, “Run and find the arrows I shoot.” As the boy ran, he shot an arrow beyond him. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_37"><sup>37</sup>When the boy came to the place where Jonathan’s arrow had fallen, Jonathan called out after him, “Isn’t the arrow beyond you?” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_38"><sup>38</sup>Then he shouted, “Hurry! Go quickly! Don’t stop!” The boy picked up the arrow and returned to his master. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_39"><sup>39</sup>(The boy knew nothing about all this; only Jonathan and David knew.) </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_40"><sup>40</sup>Then Jonathan gave his weapons to the boy and said, “Go, carry them back to town.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_41"> <sup>41</sup>After the boy had gone, David got up from the south side of the stone and bowed down before Jonathan three times, with his face to the ground. Then they kissed each other and wept together—but David wept the most. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_20_42"> <sup>42</sup>Jonathan said to David, “Go in peace, for we have sworn friendship with each other in the name of the Lord, saying, ‘The Lord is witness between you and me, and between your descendants and my descendants forever.’ ” Then David left, and Jonathan went back to the town.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts this sentence (20:42b) is numbered 21:1.">⚓</a><br/></span>
