---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>David at Adullam and Mizpah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>David left Gath and escaped to the cave of Adullam. When his brothers and his father’s household heard about it, they went down to him there. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_2"><sup>2</sup>All those who were in distress or in debt or discontented gathered around him, and he became their commander. About four hundred men were with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_3"> <sup>3</sup>From there David went to Mizpah in Moab and said to the king of Moab, “Would you let my father and mother come and stay with you until I learn what God will do for me?” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_4"><sup>4</sup>So he left them with the king of Moab, and they stayed with him as long as David was in the stronghold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_5"> <sup>5</sup>But the prophet Gad said to David, “Do not stay in the stronghold. Go into the land of Judah.” So David left and went to the forest of Hereth. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Saul Kills the Priests of Nob </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now Saul heard that David and his men had been discovered. And Saul was seated, spear in hand, under the tamarisk tree on the hill at Gibeah, with all his officials standing at his side. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_7"><sup>7</sup>He said to them, “Listen, men of Benjamin! Will the son of Jesse give all of you fields and vineyards? Will he make all of you commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds? </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_8"><sup>8</sup>Is that why you have all conspired against me? No one tells me when my son makes a covenant with the son of Jesse. None of you is concerned about me or tells me that my son has incited my servant to lie in wait for me, as he does today.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_9"> <sup>9</sup>But Doeg the Edomite, who was standing with Saul’s officials, said, “I saw the son of Jesse come to Ahimelek son of Ahitub at Nob. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_10"><sup>10</sup>Ahimelek inquired of the Lord for him; he also gave him provisions and the sword of Goliath the Philistine.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then the king sent for the priest Ahimelek son of Ahitub and all the men of his family, who were the priests at Nob, and they all came to the king. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_12"><sup>12</sup>Saul said, “Listen now, son of Ahitub.” <br/> “Yes, my lord,” he answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_13"> <sup>13</sup>Saul said to him, “Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, giving him bread and a sword and inquiring of God for him, so that he has rebelled against me and lies in wait for me, as he does today?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_14"> <sup>14</sup>Ahimelek answered the king, “Who of all your servants is as loyal as David, the king’s son-in-law, captain of your bodyguard and highly respected in your household? </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_15"><sup>15</sup>Was that day the first time I inquired of God for him? Of course not! Let not the king accuse your servant or any of his father’s family, for your servant knows nothing at all about this whole affair.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_16"> <sup>16</sup>But the king said, “You will surely die, Ahimelek, you and your whole family.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then the king ordered the guards at his side: “Turn and kill the priests of the Lord, because they too have sided with David. They knew he was fleeing, yet they did not tell me.” <br/> But the king’s officials were unwilling to raise a hand to strike the priests of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_18"> <sup>18</sup>The king then ordered Doeg, “You turn and strike down the priests.” So Doeg the Edomite turned and struck them down. That day he killed eighty-five men who wore the linen ephod. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_19"><sup>19</sup>He also put to the sword Nob, the town of the priests, with its men and women, its children and infants, and its cattle, donkeys and sheep. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_20"> <sup>20</sup>But one son of Ahimelek son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped and fled to join David. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_21"><sup>21</sup>He told David that Saul had killed the priests of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_22"><sup>22</sup>Then David said to Abiathar, “That day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, I knew he would be sure to tell Saul. I am responsible for the death of your whole family. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_22_23"><sup>23</sup>Stay with me; don’t be afraid. The man who wants to kill you is trying to kill me too. You will be safe with me.” <br/></span>
