---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>David Saves Keilah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>When David was told, “Look, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah and are looting the threshing floors,” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_2"><sup>2</sup>he inquired of the Lord, saying, “Shall I go and attack these Philistines?” <br/> The Lord answered him, “Go, attack the Philistines and save Keilah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_3"> <sup>3</sup>But David’s men said to him, “Here in Judah we are afraid. How much more, then, if we go to Keilah against the Philistine forces!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_4"> <sup>4</sup>Once again David inquired of the Lord, and the Lord answered him, “Go down to Keilah, for I am going to give the Philistines into your hand.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_5"><sup>5</sup>So David and his men went to Keilah, fought the Philistines and carried off their livestock. He inflicted heavy losses on the Philistines and saved the people of Keilah. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_6"><sup>6</sup>(Now Abiathar son of Ahimelek had brought the ephod down with him when he fled to David at Keilah.) <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Saul Pursues David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_7"> <sup>7</sup>Saul was told that David had gone to Keilah, and he said, “God has delivered him into my hands, for David has imprisoned himself by entering a town with gates and bars.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_8"><sup>8</sup>And Saul called up all his forces for battle, to go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_9"> <sup>9</sup>When David learned that Saul was plotting against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, “Bring the ephod.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_10"><sup>10</sup>David said, “Lord, God of Israel, your servant has heard definitely that Saul plans to come to Keilah and destroy the town on account of me. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_11"><sup>11</sup>Will the citizens of Keilah surrender me to him? Will Saul come down, as your servant has heard? Lord, God of Israel, tell your servant.” <br/> And the Lord said, “He will.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_12"> <sup>12</sup>Again David asked, “Will the citizens of Keilah surrender me and my men to Saul?” <br/> And the Lord said, “They will.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_13"> <sup>13</sup>So David and his men, about six hundred in number, left Keilah and kept moving from place to place. When Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah, he did not go there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_14"> <sup>14</sup>David stayed in the wilderness strongholds and in the hills of the Desert of Ziph. Day after day Saul searched for him, but God did not give David into his hands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_15"> <sup>15</sup>While David was at Horesh in the Desert of Ziph, he learned that<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or he was afraid because">⚓</a> Saul had come out to take his life. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_16"><sup>16</sup>And Saul’s son Jonathan went to David at Horesh and helped him find strength in God. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_17"><sup>17</sup>“Don’t be afraid,” he said. “My father Saul will not lay a hand on you. You will be king over Israel, and I will be second to you. Even my father Saul knows this.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_18"><sup>18</sup>The two of them made a covenant before the Lord. Then Jonathan went home, but David remained at Horesh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_19"> <sup>19</sup>The Ziphites went up to Saul at Gibeah and said, “Is not David hiding among us in the strongholds at Horesh, on the hill of Hakilah, south of Jeshimon? </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_20"><sup>20</sup>Now, Your Majesty, come down whenever it pleases you to do so, and we will be responsible for giving him into your hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_21"> <sup>21</sup>Saul replied, “The Lord bless you for your concern for me. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_22"><sup>22</sup>Go and get more information. Find out where David usually goes and who has seen him there. They tell me he is very crafty. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_23"><sup>23</sup>Find out about all the hiding places he uses and come back to me with definite information. Then I will go with you; if he is in the area, I will track him down among all the clans of Judah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_24"> <sup>24</sup>So they set out and went to Ziph ahead of Saul. Now David and his men were in the Desert of Maon, in the Arabah south of Jeshimon. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_25"><sup>25</sup>Saul and his men began the search, and when David was told about it, he went down to the rock and stayed in the Desert of Maon. When Saul heard this, he went into the Desert of Maon in pursuit of David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_26"> <sup>26</sup>Saul was going along one side of the mountain, and David and his men were on the other side, hurrying to get away from Saul. As Saul and his forces were closing in on David and his men to capture them, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_27"><sup>27</sup>a messenger came to Saul, saying, “Come quickly! The Philistines are raiding the land.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_28"><sup>28</sup>Then Saul broke off his pursuit of David and went to meet the Philistines. That is why they call this place Sela Hammahlekoth.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means rock of parting.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_23_29"><sup>29</sup>And David went up from there and lived in the strongholds of En Gedi.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts this verse (23:29) is numbered 24:1.">⚓</a><br/></span>
