---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>David Spares Saul’s Life </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>After Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, he was told, “David is in the Desert of En Gedi.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_2"><sup>2</sup>So Saul took three thousand able young men from all Israel and set out to look for David and his men near the Crags of the Wild Goats. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_3"> <sup>3</sup>He came to the sheep pens along the way; a cave was there, and Saul went in to relieve himself. David and his men were far back in the cave. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_4"><sup>4</sup>The men said, “This is the day the Lord spoke of when he said<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or “Today the Lordis saying">⚓</a> to you, ‘I will give your enemy into your hands for you to deal with as you wish.’ ” Then David crept up unnoticed and cut off a corner of Saul’s robe. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_5"> <sup>5</sup>Afterward, David was conscience-stricken for having cut off a corner of his robe. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_6"><sup>6</sup>He said to his men, “The Lord forbid that I should do such a thing to my master, the Lord’s anointed, or lay my hand on him; for he is the anointed of the Lord.” </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_7"><sup>7</sup>With these words David sharply rebuked his men and did not allow them to attack Saul. And Saul left the cave and went his way. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then David went out of the cave and called out to Saul, “My lord the king!” When Saul looked behind him, David bowed down and prostrated himself with his face to the ground. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_9"><sup>9</sup>He said to Saul, “Why do you listen when men say, ‘David is bent on harming you’? </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_10"><sup>10</sup>This day you have seen with your own eyes how the Lord delivered you into my hands in the cave. Some urged me to kill you, but I spared you; I said, ‘I will not lay my hand on my lord, because he is the Lord’s anointed.’ </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_11"><sup>11</sup>See, my father, look at this piece of your robe in my hand! I cut off the corner of your robe but did not kill you. See that there is nothing in my hand to indicate that I am guilty of wrongdoing or rebellion. I have not wronged you, but you are hunting me down to take my life. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_12"><sup>12</sup>May the Lord judge between you and me. And may the Lord avenge the wrongs you have done to me, but my hand will not touch you. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_13"><sup>13</sup>As the old saying goes, ‘From evildoers come evil deeds,’ so my hand will not touch you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Against whom has the king of Israel come out? Who are you pursuing? A dead dog? A flea? </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_15"><sup>15</sup>May the Lord be our judge and decide between us. May he consider my cause and uphold it; may he vindicate me by delivering me from your hand.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_16"> <sup>16</sup>When David finished saying this, Saul asked, “Is that your voice, David my son?” And he wept aloud. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_17"><sup>17</sup>“You are more righteous than I,” he said. “You have treated me well, but I have treated you badly. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_18"><sup>18</sup>You have just now told me about the good you did to me; the Lord delivered me into your hands, but you did not kill me. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_19"><sup>19</sup>When a man finds his enemy, does he let him get away unharmed? May the Lord reward you well for the way you treated me today. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_20"><sup>20</sup>I know that you will surely be king and that the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hands. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_21"><sup>21</sup>Now swear to me by the Lord that you will not kill off my descendants or wipe out my name from my father’s family.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_24_22"> <sup>22</sup>So David gave his oath to Saul. Then Saul returned home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold. <br/></span>
