---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Samuel 
bookNumber: 9
audio: \Audio\NIV\1sa\31.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>31</h1><h3>Saul Takes His Life </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now the Philistines fought against Israel; the Israelites fled before them, and many fell dead on Mount Gilboa. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_2"><sup>2</sup>The Philistines were in hot pursuit of Saul and his sons, and they killed his sons Jonathan, Abinadab and Malki-Shua. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_3"><sup>3</sup>The fighting grew fierce around Saul, and when the archers overtook him, they wounded him critically. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_4"> <sup>4</sup>Saul said to his armor-bearer, “Draw your sword and run me through, or these uncircumcised fellows will come and run me through and abuse me.” <br/> But his armor-bearer was terrified and would not do it; so Saul took his own sword and fell on it. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_5"><sup>5</sup>When the armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he too fell on his sword and died with him. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_6"><sup>6</sup>So Saul and his three sons and his armor-bearer and all his men died together that same day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_7"> <sup>7</sup>When the Israelites along the valley and those across the Jordan saw that the Israelite army had fled and that Saul and his sons had died, they abandoned their towns and fled. And the Philistines came and occupied them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_8"> <sup>8</sup>The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the dead, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_9"><sup>9</sup>They cut off his head and stripped off his armor, and they sent messengers throughout the land of the Philistines to proclaim the news in the temple of their idols and among their people. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_10"><sup>10</sup>They put his armor in the temple of the Ashtoreths and fastened his body to the wall of Beth Shan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_11"> <sup>11</sup>When the people of Jabesh Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul, </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_12"><sup>12</sup>all their valiant men marched through the night to Beth Shan. They took down the bodies of Saul and his sons from the wall of Beth Shan and went to Jabesh, where they burned them. </span>
<span class="verse 1sa_31_13"><sup>13</sup>Then they took their bones and buried them under a tamarisk tree at Jabesh, and they fasted seven days. <br/></span>
