---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>The Command to Leave Horeb </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>These are the words Moses spoke to all Israel in the wilderness east of the Jordan—that is, in the Arabah—opposite Suph, between Paran and Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth and Dizahab. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_2"><sup>2</sup>(It takes eleven days to go from Horeb to Kadesh Barnea by the Mount Seir road.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>In the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses proclaimed to the Israelites all that the Lord had commanded him concerning them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_4"><sup>4</sup>This was after he had defeated Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, and at Edrei had defeated Og king of Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>East of the Jordan in the territory of Moab, Moses began to expound this law, saying: <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>The Lord our God said to us at Horeb, “You have stayed long enough at this mountain. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_7"><sup>7</sup>Break camp and advance into the hill country of the Amorites; go to all the neighboring peoples in the Arabah, in the mountains, in the western foothills, in the Negev and along the coast, to the land of the Canaanites and to Lebanon, as far as the great river, the Euphrates. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_8"><sup>8</sup>See, I have given you this land. Go in and take possession of the land the Lord swore he would give to your fathers—to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob—and to their descendants after them.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Appointment of Leaders </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>At that time I said to you, “You are too heavy a burden for me to carry alone. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_10"><sup>10</sup>The Lord your God has increased your numbers so that today you are as numerous as the stars in the sky. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_11"><sup>11</sup>May the Lord, the God of your ancestors, increase you a thousand times and bless you as he has promised! </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_12"><sup>12</sup>But how can I bear your problems and your burdens and your disputes all by myself? </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_13"><sup>13</sup>Choose some wise, understanding and respected men from each of your tribes, and I will set them over you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_14"> <sup>14</sup>You answered me, “What you propose to do is good.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>So I took the leading men of your tribes, wise and respected men, and appointed them to have authority over you—as commanders of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties and of tens and as tribal officials. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_16"><sup>16</sup>And I charged your judges at that time, “Hear the disputes between your people and judge fairly, whether the case is between two Israelites or between an Israelite and a foreigner residing among you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_17"><sup>17</sup>Do not show partiality in judging; hear both small and great alike. Do not be afraid of anyone, for judgment belongs to God. Bring me any case too hard for you, and I will hear it.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_18"><sup>18</sup>And at that time I told you everything you were to do. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Spies Sent Out </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then, as the Lord our God commanded us, we set out from Horeb and went toward the hill country of the Amorites through all that vast and dreadful wilderness that you have seen, and so we reached Kadesh Barnea. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_20"><sup>20</sup>Then I said to you, “You have reached the hill country of the Amorites, which the Lord our God is giving us. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_21"><sup>21</sup>See, the Lord your God has given you the land. Go up and take possession of it as the Lord, the God of your ancestors, told you. Do not be afraid; do not be discouraged.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then all of you came to me and said, “Let us send men ahead to spy out the land for us and bring back a report about the route we are to take and the towns we will come to.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_23"> <sup>23</sup>The idea seemed good to me; so I selected twelve of you, one man from each tribe. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_24"><sup>24</sup>They left and went up into the hill country, and came to the Valley of Eshkol and explored it. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_25"><sup>25</sup>Taking with them some of the fruit of the land, they brought it down to us and reported, “It is a good land that the Lord our God is giving us.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Rebellion Against the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_1_26"> <sup>26</sup>But you were unwilling to go up; you rebelled against the command of the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_27"><sup>27</sup>You grumbled in your tents and said, “The Lord hates us; so he brought us out of Egypt to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites to destroy us. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_28"><sup>28</sup>Where can we go? Our brothers have made our hearts melt in fear. They say, ‘The people are stronger and taller than we are; the cities are large, with walls up to the sky. We even saw the Anakites there.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_29"> <sup>29</sup>Then I said to you, “Do not be terrified; do not be afraid of them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_30"><sup>30</sup>The Lord your God, who is going before you, will fight for you, as he did for you in Egypt, before your very eyes, </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_31"><sup>31</sup>and in the wilderness. There you saw how the Lord your God carried you, as a father carries his son, all the way you went until you reached this place.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_32"> <sup>32</sup>In spite of this, you did not trust in the Lord your God, </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_33"><sup>33</sup>who went ahead of you on your journey, in fire by night and in a cloud by day, to search out places for you to camp and to show you the way you should go. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_34"> <sup>34</sup>When the Lord heard what you said, he was angry and solemnly swore: </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_35"><sup>35</sup>“No one from this evil generation shall see the good land I swore to give your ancestors, </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_36"><sup>36</sup>except Caleb son of Jephunneh. He will see it, and I will give him and his descendants the land he set his feet on, because he followed the Lord wholeheartedly.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_37"> <sup>37</sup>Because of you the Lord became angry with me also and said, “You shall not enter it, either. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_38"><sup>38</sup>But your assistant, Joshua son of Nun, will enter it. Encourage him, because he will lead Israel to inherit it. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_39"><sup>39</sup>And the little ones that you said would be taken captive, your children who do not yet know good from bad—they will enter the land. I will give it to them and they will take possession of it. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_40"><sup>40</sup>But as for you, turn around and set out toward the desert along the route to the Red Sea.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a> ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_41"> <sup>41</sup>Then you replied, “We have sinned against the Lord. We will go up and fight, as the Lord our God commanded us.” So every one of you put on his weapons, thinking it easy to go up into the hill country. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_42"> <sup>42</sup>But the Lord said to me, “Tell them, ‘Do not go up and fight, because I will not be with you. You will be defeated by your enemies.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_1_43"> <sup>43</sup>So I told you, but you would not listen. You rebelled against the Lord’s command and in your arrogance you marched up into the hill country. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_44"><sup>44</sup>The Amorites who lived in those hills came out against you; they chased you like a swarm of bees and beat you down from Seir all the way to Hormah. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_45"><sup>45</sup>You came back and wept before the Lord, but he paid no attention to your weeping and turned a deaf ear to you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_1_46"><sup>46</sup>And so you stayed in Kadesh many days—all the time you spent there. <br/></span>
