---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Wanderings in the Wilderness </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then we turned back and set out toward the wilderness along the route to the Red Sea,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a> as the Lord had directed me. For a long time we made our way around the hill country of Seir. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then the Lord said to me, </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_3"><sup>3</sup>“You have made your way around this hill country long enough; now turn north. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_4"><sup>4</sup>Give the people these orders: ‘You are about to pass through the territory of your relatives the descendants of Esau, who live in Seir. They will be afraid of you, but be very careful. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_5"><sup>5</sup>Do not provoke them to war, for I will not give you any of their land, not even enough to put your foot on. I have given Esau the hill country of Seir as his own. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_6"><sup>6</sup>You are to pay them in silver for the food you eat and the water you drink.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>The Lord your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He has watched over your journey through this vast wilderness. These forty years the Lord your God has been with you, and you have not lacked anything. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>So we went on past our relatives the descendants of Esau, who live in Seir. We turned from the Arabah road, which comes up from Elath and Ezion Geber, and traveled along the desert road of Moab. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then the Lord said to me, “Do not harass the Moabites or provoke them to war, for I will not give you any part of their land. I have given Ar to the descendants of Lot as a possession.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_10"> <sup>10</sup>(The Emites used to live there—a people strong and numerous, and as tall as the Anakites. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_11"><sup>11</sup>Like the Anakites, they too were considered Rephaites, but the Moabites called them Emites. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_12"><sup>12</sup>Horites used to live in Seir, but the descendants of Esau drove them out. They destroyed the Horites from before them and settled in their place, just as Israel did in the land the Lord gave them as their possession.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>And the Lord said, “Now get up and cross the Zered Valley.” So we crossed the valley. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>Thirty-eight years passed from the time we left Kadesh Barnea until we crossed the Zered Valley. By then, that entire generation of fighting men had perished from the camp, as the Lord had sworn to them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_15"><sup>15</sup>The Lord’s hand was against them until he had completely eliminated them from the camp. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_16"> <sup>16</sup>Now when the last of these fighting men among the people had died, </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_17"><sup>17</sup>the Lord said to me, </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_18"><sup>18</sup>“Today you are to pass by the region of Moab at Ar. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_19"><sup>19</sup>When you come to the Ammonites, do not harass them or provoke them to war, for I will not give you possession of any land belonging to the Ammonites. I have given it as a possession to the descendants of Lot.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>(That too was considered a land of the Rephaites, who used to live there; but the Ammonites called them Zamzummites. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_21"><sup>21</sup>They were a people strong and numerous, and as tall as the Anakites. The Lord destroyed them from before the Ammonites, who drove them out and settled in their place. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_22"><sup>22</sup>The Lord had done the same for the descendants of Esau, who lived in Seir, when he destroyed the Horites from before them. They drove them out and have lived in their place to this day. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_23"><sup>23</sup>And as for the Avvites who lived in villages as far as Gaza, the Caphtorites coming out from Caphtor<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Crete">⚓</a> destroyed them and settled in their place.) <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Defeat of Sihon King of Heshbon </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_2_24"> <sup>24</sup>“Set out now and cross the Arnon Gorge. See, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his country. Begin to take possession of it and engage him in battle. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_25"><sup>25</sup>This very day I will begin to put the terror and fear of you on all the nations under heaven. They will hear reports of you and will tremble and be in anguish because of you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_26"> <sup>26</sup>From the Desert of Kedemoth I sent messengers to Sihon king of Heshbon offering peace and saying, </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_27"><sup>27</sup>“Let us pass through your country. We will stay on the main road; we will not turn aside to the right or to the left. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_28"><sup>28</sup>Sell us food to eat and water to drink for their price in silver. Only let us pass through on foot— </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_29"><sup>29</sup>as the descendants of Esau, who live in Seir, and the Moabites, who live in Ar, did for us—until we cross the Jordan into the land the Lord our God is giving us.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_30"><sup>30</sup>But Sihon king of Heshbon refused to let us pass through. For the Lord your God had made his spirit stubborn and his heart obstinate in order to give him into your hands, as he has now done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_31"> <sup>31</sup>The Lord said to me, “See, I have begun to deliver Sihon and his country over to you. Now begin to conquer and possess his land.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_2_32"> <sup>32</sup>When Sihon and all his army came out to meet us in battle at Jahaz, </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_33"><sup>33</sup>the Lord our God delivered him over to us and we struck him down, together with his sons and his whole army. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_34"><sup>34</sup>At that time we took all his towns and completely destroyed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them.">⚓</a> them—men, women and children. We left no survivors. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_35"><sup>35</sup>But the livestock and the plunder from the towns we had captured we carried off for ourselves. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_36"><sup>36</sup>From Aroer on the rim of the Arnon Gorge, and from the town in the gorge, even as far as Gilead, not one town was too strong for us. The Lord our God gave us all of them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_2_37"><sup>37</sup>But in accordance with the command of the Lord our God, you did not encroach on any of the land of the Ammonites, neither the land along the course of the Jabbok nor that around the towns in the hills. <br/></span>
