---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Obedience Commanded </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now, Israel, hear the decrees and laws I am about to teach you. Follow them so that you may live and may go in and take possession of the land the Lord, the God of your ancestors, is giving you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_2"><sup>2</sup>Do not add to what I command you and do not subtract from it, but keep the commands of the Lord your God that I give you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_4_3"> <sup>3</sup>You saw with your own eyes what the Lord did at Baal Peor. The Lord your God destroyed from among you everyone who followed the Baal of Peor, </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_4"><sup>4</sup>but all of you who held fast to the Lord your God are still alive today. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_4_5"> <sup>5</sup>See, I have taught you decrees and laws as the Lord my God commanded me, so that you may follow them in the land you are entering to take possession of it. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Observe them carefully, for this will show your wisdom and understanding to the nations, who will hear about all these decrees and say, “Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_7"><sup>7</sup>What other nation is so great as to have their gods near them the way the Lord our God is near us whenever we pray to him? </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_8"><sup>8</sup>And what other nation is so great as to have such righteous decrees and laws as this body of laws I am setting before you today? <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>Only be careful, and watch yourselves closely so that you do not forget the things your eyes have seen or let them fade from your heart as long as you live. Teach them to your children and to their children after them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_10"><sup>10</sup>Remember the day you stood before the Lord your God at Horeb, when he said to me, “Assemble the people before me to hear my words so that they may learn to revere me as long as they live in the land and may teach them to their children.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_11"><sup>11</sup>You came near and stood at the foot of the mountain while it blazed with fire to the very heavens, with black clouds and deep darkness. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_12"><sup>12</sup>Then the Lord spoke to you out of the fire. You heard the sound of words but saw no form; there was only a voice. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_13"><sup>13</sup>He declared to you his covenant, the Ten Commandments, which he commanded you to follow and then wrote them on two stone tablets. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_14"><sup>14</sup>And the Lord directed me at that time to teach you the decrees and laws you are to follow in the land that you are crossing the Jordan to possess. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Idolatry Forbidden </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>You saw no form of any kind the day the Lord spoke to you at Horeb out of the fire. Therefore watch yourselves very carefully, </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_16"><sup>16</sup>so that you do not become corrupt and make for yourselves an idol, an image of any shape, whether formed like a man or a woman, </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_17"><sup>17</sup>or like any animal on earth or any bird that flies in the air, </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_18"><sup>18</sup>or like any creature that moves along the ground or any fish in the waters below. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_19"><sup>19</sup>And when you look up to the sky and see the sun, the moon and the stars—all the heavenly array—do not be enticed into bowing down to them and worshiping things the Lord your God has apportioned to all the nations under heaven. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_20"><sup>20</sup>But as for you, the Lord took you and brought you out of the iron-smelting furnace, out of Egypt, to be the people of his inheritance, as you now are. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>The Lord was angry with me because of you, and he solemnly swore that I would not cross the Jordan and enter the good land the Lord your God is giving you as your inheritance. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_22"><sup>22</sup>I will die in this land; I will not cross the Jordan; but you are about to cross over and take possession of that good land. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_23"><sup>23</sup>Be careful not to forget the covenant of the Lord your God that he made with you; do not make for yourselves an idol in the form of anything the Lord your God has forbidden. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_24"><sup>24</sup>For the Lord your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_4_25"> <sup>25</sup>After you have had children and grandchildren and have lived in the land a long time—if you then become corrupt and make any kind of idol, doing evil in the eyes of the Lord your God and arousing his anger, </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_26"><sup>26</sup>I call the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you this day that you will quickly perish from the land that you are crossing the Jordan to possess. You will not live there long but will certainly be destroyed. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_27"><sup>27</sup>The Lord will scatter you among the peoples, and only a few of you will survive among the nations to which the Lord will drive you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_28"><sup>28</sup>There you will worship man-made gods of wood and stone, which cannot see or hear or eat or smell. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_29"><sup>29</sup>But if from there you seek the Lord your God, you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_30"><sup>30</sup>When you are in distress and all these things have happened to you, then in later days you will return to the Lord your God and obey him. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_31"><sup>31</sup>For the Lord your God is a merciful God; he will not abandon or destroy you or forget the covenant with your ancestors, which he confirmed to them by oath. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Lord Is God </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_4_32"> <sup>32</sup>Ask now about the former days, long before your time, from the day God created human beings on the earth; ask from one end of the heavens to the other. Has anything so great as this ever happened, or has anything like it ever been heard of? </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_33"><sup>33</sup>Has any other people heard the voice of God<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or of a god">⚓</a> speaking out of fire, as you have, and lived? </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_34"><sup>34</sup>Has any god ever tried to take for himself one nation out of another nation, by testings, by signs and wonders, by war, by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, or by great and awesome deeds, like all the things the Lord your God did for you in Egypt before your very eyes? <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_4_35"> <sup>35</sup>You were shown these things so that you might know that the Lord is God; besides him there is no other. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_36"><sup>36</sup>From heaven he made you hear his voice to discipline you. On earth he showed you his great fire, and you heard his words from out of the fire. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_37"><sup>37</sup>Because he loved your ancestors and chose their descendants after them, he brought you out of Egypt by his Presence and his great strength, </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_38"><sup>38</sup>to drive out before you nations greater and stronger than you and to bring you into their land to give it to you for your inheritance, as it is today. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_4_39"> <sup>39</sup>Acknowledge and take to heart this day that the Lord is God in heaven above and on the earth below. There is no other. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_40"><sup>40</sup>Keep his decrees and commands, which I am giving you today, so that it may go well with you and your children after you and that you may live long in the land the Lord your God gives you for all time. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Cities of Refuge </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_4_41"> <sup>41</sup>Then Moses set aside three cities east of the Jordan, </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_42"><sup>42</sup>to which anyone who had killed a person could flee if they had unintentionally killed a neighbor without malice aforethought. They could flee into one of these cities and save their life. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_43"><sup>43</sup>The cities were these: Bezer in the wilderness plateau, for the Reubenites; Ramoth in Gilead, for the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, for the Manassites. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Introduction to the Law </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_4_44"> <sup>44</sup>This is the law Moses set before the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_45"><sup>45</sup>These are the stipulations, decrees and laws Moses gave them when they came out of Egypt </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_46"><sup>46</sup>and were in the valley near Beth Peor east of the Jordan, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon and was defeated by Moses and the Israelites as they came out of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_47"><sup>47</sup>They took possession of his land and the land of Og king of Bashan, the two Amorite kings east of the Jordan. </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_48"><sup>48</sup>This land extended from Aroer on the rim of the Arnon Gorge to Mount Sirion<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Syriac (see also 3:9); Hebrew Siyon">⚓</a> (that is, Hermon), </span>
<span class="verse phu_4_49"><sup>49</sup>and included all the Arabah east of the Jordan, as far as the Dead Sea,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew the Sea of the Arabah">⚓</a> below the slopes of Pisgah. <br/></span>
