---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>The Ten Commandments </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Moses summoned all Israel and said: <br/> Hear, Israel, the decrees and laws I declare in your hearing today. Learn them and be sure to follow them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_2"><sup>2</sup>The Lord our God made a covenant with us at Horeb. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_3"><sup>3</sup>It was not with our ancestors<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or not only with our parents">⚓</a> that the Lord made this covenant, but with us, with all of us who are alive here today. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_4"><sup>4</sup>The Lord spoke to you face to face out of the fire on the mountain. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_5"><sup>5</sup>(At that time I stood between the Lord and you to declare to you the word of the Lord, because you were afraid of the fire and did not go up the mountain.) And he said: <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_6">  <sup>6</sup>“I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_7">  <sup>7</sup>“You shall have no other gods before<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or besides">⚓</a> me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_8">  <sup>8</sup>“You shall not make for yourself an image in the form of anything in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the waters below. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_9"><sup>9</sup>You shall not bow down to them or worship them; for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, punishing the children for the sin of the parents to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_10"><sup>10</sup>but showing love to a thousand generations of those who love me and keep my commandments. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_11">  <sup>11</sup>“You shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God, for the Lord will not hold anyone guiltless who misuses his name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Observe the Sabbath day by keeping it holy, as the Lord your God has commanded you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_13"><sup>13</sup>Six days you shall labor and do all your work, </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_14"><sup>14</sup>but the seventh day is a sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, neither you, nor your son or daughter, nor your male or female servant, nor your ox, your donkey or any of your animals, nor any foreigner residing in your towns, so that your male and female servants may rest, as you do. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_15"><sup>15</sup>Remember that you were slaves in Egypt and that the Lord your God brought you out of there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore the Lord your God has commanded you to observe the Sabbath day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_16">  <sup>16</sup>“Honor your father and your mother, as the Lord your God has commanded you, so that you may live long and that it may go well with you in the land the Lord your God is giving you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_17">  <sup>17</sup>“You shall not murder. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_18">  <sup>18</sup>“You shall not commit adultery. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_19">  <sup>19</sup>“You shall not steal. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_20">  <sup>20</sup>“You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_21">  <sup>21</sup>“You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife. You shall not set your desire on your neighbor’s house or land, his male or female servant, his ox or donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_22"> <sup>22</sup>These are the commandments the Lord proclaimed in a loud voice to your whole assembly there on the mountain from out of the fire, the cloud and the deep darkness; and he added nothing more. Then he wrote them on two stone tablets and gave them to me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_23"> <sup>23</sup>When you heard the voice out of the darkness, while the mountain was ablaze with fire, all the leaders of your tribes and your elders came to me. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_24"><sup>24</sup>And you said, “The Lord our God has shown us his glory and his majesty, and we have heard his voice from the fire. Today we have seen that a person can live even if God speaks with them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_25"><sup>25</sup>But now, why should we die? This great fire will consume us, and we will die if we hear the voice of the Lord our God any longer. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_26"><sup>26</sup>For what mortal has ever heard the voice of the living God speaking out of fire, as we have, and survived? </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_27"><sup>27</sup>Go near and listen to all that the Lord our God says. Then tell us whatever the Lord our God tells you. We will listen and obey.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_28"> <sup>28</sup>The Lord heard you when you spoke to me, and the Lord said to me, “I have heard what this people said to you. Everything they said was good. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_29"><sup>29</sup>Oh, that their hearts would be inclined to fear me and keep all my commands always, so that it might go well with them and their children forever! <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_30"> <sup>30</sup>“Go, tell them to return to their tents. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_31"><sup>31</sup>But you stay here with me so that I may give you all the commands, decrees and laws you are to teach them to follow in the land I am giving them to possess.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_5_32"> <sup>32</sup>So be careful to do what the Lord your God has commanded you; do not turn aside to the right or to the left. </span>
<span class="verse phu_5_33"><sup>33</sup>Walk in obedience to all that the Lord your God has commanded you, so that you may live and prosper and prolong your days in the land that you will possess. <br/></span>
