---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Love the Lord Your God </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>These are the commands, decrees and laws the Lord your God directed me to teach you to observe in the land that you are crossing the Jordan to possess, </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_2"><sup>2</sup>so that you, your children and their children after them may fear the Lord your God as long as you live by keeping all his decrees and commands that I give you, and so that you may enjoy long life. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_3"><sup>3</sup>Hear, Israel, and be careful to obey so that it may go well with you and that you may increase greatly in a land flowing with milk and honey, just as the Lord, the God of your ancestors, promised you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_6_4"> <sup>4</sup>Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or The Lordour God is one Lord; or The Lordis our God, the Lordis one ; or The Lordis our God, the Lordalone">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse phu_6_5"><sup>5</sup>Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_6"><sup>6</sup>These commandments that I give you today are to be on your hearts. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_7"><sup>7</sup>Impress them on your children. Talk about them when you sit at home and when you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_8"><sup>8</sup>Tie them as symbols on your hands and bind them on your foreheads. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_9"><sup>9</sup>Write them on the doorframes of your houses and on your gates. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_6_10"> <sup>10</sup>When the Lord your God brings you into the land he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, to give you—a land with large, flourishing cities you did not build, </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_11"><sup>11</sup>houses filled with all kinds of good things you did not provide, wells you did not dig, and vineyards and olive groves you did not plant—then when you eat and are satisfied, </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_12"><sup>12</sup>be careful that you do not forget the Lord, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_6_13"> <sup>13</sup>Fear the Lord your God, serve him only and take your oaths in his name. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_14"><sup>14</sup>Do not follow other gods, the gods of the peoples around you; </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_15"><sup>15</sup>for the Lord your God, who is among you, is a jealous God and his anger will burn against you, and he will destroy you from the face of the land. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_16"><sup>16</sup>Do not put the Lord your God to the test as you did at Massah. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_17"><sup>17</sup>Be sure to keep the commands of the Lord your God and the stipulations and decrees he has given you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_18"><sup>18</sup>Do what is right and good in the Lord’s sight, so that it may go well with you and you may go in and take over the good land the Lord promised on oath to your ancestors, </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_19"><sup>19</sup>thrusting out all your enemies before you, as the Lord said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_6_20"> <sup>20</sup>In the future, when your son asks you, “What is the meaning of the stipulations, decrees and laws the Lord our God has commanded you?” </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_21"><sup>21</sup>tell him: “We were slaves of Pharaoh in Egypt, but the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_22"><sup>22</sup>Before our eyes the Lord sent signs and wonders—great and terrible—on Egypt and Pharaoh and his whole household. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_23"><sup>23</sup>But he brought us out from there to bring us in and give us the land he promised on oath to our ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_24"><sup>24</sup>The Lord commanded us to obey all these decrees and to fear the Lord our God, so that we might always prosper and be kept alive, as is the case today. </span>
<span class="verse phu_6_25"><sup>25</sup>And if we are careful to obey all this law before the Lord our God, as he has commanded us, that will be our righteousness.” <br/></span>
