---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Driving Out the Nations </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the Lord your God brings you into the land you are entering to possess and drives out before you many nations—the Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites, seven nations larger and stronger than you— </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_2"><sup>2</sup>and when the Lord your God has delivered them over to you and you have defeated them, then you must destroy them totally.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them; also in verse 26.">⚓</a> Make no treaty with them, and show them no mercy. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_3"><sup>3</sup>Do not intermarry with them. Do not give your daughters to their sons or take their daughters for your sons, </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_4"><sup>4</sup>for they will turn your children away from following me to serve other gods, and the Lord’s anger will burn against you and will quickly destroy you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_5"><sup>5</sup>This is what you are to do to them: Break down their altars, smash their sacred stones, cut down their Asherah poles<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, wooden symbols of the goddess Asherah; here and elsewhere in Deuteronomy">⚓</a> and burn their idols in the fire. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_6"><sup>6</sup>For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you out of all the peoples on the face of the earth to be his people, his treasured possession. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_7_7"> <sup>7</sup>The Lord did not set his affection on you and choose you because you were more numerous than other peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_8"><sup>8</sup>But it was because the Lord loved you and kept the oath he swore to your ancestors that he brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the land of slavery, from the power of Pharaoh king of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_9"><sup>9</sup>Know therefore that the Lord your God is God; he is the faithful God, keeping his covenant of love to a thousand generations of those who love him and keep his commandments. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_10"><sup>10</sup>But <br/>  those who hate him he will repay to their face by destruction; <br/>   he will not be slow to repay to their face those who hate him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_7_11"><sup>11</sup>Therefore, take care to follow the commands, decrees and laws I give you today. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>If you pay attention to these laws and are careful to follow them, then the Lord your God will keep his covenant of love with you, as he swore to your ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_13"><sup>13</sup>He will love you and bless you and increase your numbers. He will bless the fruit of your womb, the crops of your land—your grain, new wine and olive oil—the calves of your herds and the lambs of your flocks in the land he swore to your ancestors to give you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_14"><sup>14</sup>You will be blessed more than any other people; none of your men or women will be childless, nor will any of your livestock be without young. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_15"><sup>15</sup>The Lord will keep you free from every disease. He will not inflict on you the horrible diseases you knew in Egypt, but he will inflict them on all who hate you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_16"><sup>16</sup>You must destroy all the peoples the Lord your God gives over to you. Do not look on them with pity and do not serve their gods, for that will be a snare to you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_7_17"> <sup>17</sup>You may say to yourselves, “These nations are stronger than we are. How can we drive them out?” </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_18"><sup>18</sup>But do not be afraid of them; remember well what the Lord your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_19"><sup>19</sup>You saw with your own eyes the great trials, the signs and wonders, the mighty hand and outstretched arm, with which the Lord your God brought you out. The Lord your God will do the same to all the peoples you now fear. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_20"><sup>20</sup>Moreover, the Lord your God will send the hornet among them until even the survivors who hide from you have perished. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_21"><sup>21</sup>Do not be terrified by them, for the Lord your God, who is among you, is a great and awesome God. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_22"><sup>22</sup>The Lord your God will drive out those nations before you, little by little. You will not be allowed to eliminate them all at once, or the wild animals will multiply around you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_23"><sup>23</sup>But the Lord your God will deliver them over to you, throwing them into great confusion until they are destroyed. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_24"><sup>24</sup>He will give their kings into your hand, and you will wipe out their names from under heaven. No one will be able to stand up against you; you will destroy them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_25"><sup>25</sup>The images of their gods you are to burn in the fire. Do not covet the silver and gold on them, and do not take it for yourselves, or you will be ensnared by it, for it is detestable to the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse phu_7_26"><sup>26</sup>Do not bring a detestable thing into your house or you, like it, will be set apart for destruction. Regard it as vile and utterly detest it, for it is set apart for destruction. <br/></span>
