---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>Do Not Forget the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>Be careful to follow every command I am giving you today, so that you may live and increase and may enter and possess the land the Lord promised on oath to your ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_2"><sup>2</sup>Remember how the Lord your God led you all the way in the wilderness these forty years, to humble and test you in order to know what was in your heart, whether or not you would keep his commands. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_3"><sup>3</sup>He humbled you, causing you to hunger and then feeding you with manna, which neither you nor your ancestors had known, to teach you that man does not live on bread alone but on every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_4"><sup>4</sup>Your clothes did not wear out and your feet did not swell during these forty years. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_5"><sup>5</sup>Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, so the Lord your God disciplines you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_8_6"> <sup>6</sup>Observe the commands of the Lord your God, walking in obedience to him and revering him. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_7"><sup>7</sup>For the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land—a land with brooks, streams, and deep springs gushing out into the valleys and hills; </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_8"><sup>8</sup>a land with wheat and barley, vines and fig trees, pomegranates, olive oil and honey; </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_9"><sup>9</sup>a land where bread will not be scarce and you will lack nothing; a land where the rocks are iron and you can dig copper out of the hills. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_8_10"> <sup>10</sup>When you have eaten and are satisfied, praise the Lord your God for the good land he has given you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_11"><sup>11</sup>Be careful that you do not forget the Lord your God, failing to observe his commands, his laws and his decrees that I am giving you this day. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_12"><sup>12</sup>Otherwise, when you eat and are satisfied, when you build fine houses and settle down, </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_13"><sup>13</sup>and when your herds and flocks grow large and your silver and gold increase and all you have is multiplied, </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_14"><sup>14</sup>then your heart will become proud and you will forget the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_15"><sup>15</sup>He led you through the vast and dreadful wilderness, that thirsty and waterless land, with its venomous snakes and scorpions. He brought you water out of hard rock. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_16"><sup>16</sup>He gave you manna to eat in the wilderness, something your ancestors had never known, to humble and test you so that in the end it might go well with you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_17"><sup>17</sup>You may say to yourself, “My power and the strength of my hands have produced this wealth for me.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_18"><sup>18</sup>But remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you the ability to produce wealth, and so confirms his covenant, which he swore to your ancestors, as it is today. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_8_19"> <sup>19</sup>If you ever forget the Lord your God and follow other gods and worship and bow down to them, I testify against you today that you will surely be destroyed. </span>
<span class="verse phu_8_20"><sup>20</sup>Like the nations the Lord destroyed before you, so you will be destroyed for not obeying the Lord your God. <br/></span>
