---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>Not Because of Israel’s Righteousness </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>Hear, Israel: You are now about to cross the Jordan to go in and dispossess nations greater and stronger than you, with large cities that have walls up to the sky. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_2"><sup>2</sup>The people are strong and tall—Anakites! You know about them and have heard it said: “Who can stand up against the Anakites?” </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_3"><sup>3</sup>But be assured today that the Lord your God is the one who goes across ahead of you like a devouring fire. He will destroy them; he will subdue them before you. And you will drive them out and annihilate them quickly, as the Lord has promised you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_9_4"> <sup>4</sup>After the Lord your God has driven them out before you, do not say to yourself, “The Lord has brought me here to take possession of this land because of my righteousness.” No, it is on account of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is going to drive them out before you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_5"><sup>5</sup>It is not because of your righteousness or your integrity that you are going in to take possession of their land; but on account of the wickedness of these nations, the Lord your God will drive them out before you, to accomplish what he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_6"><sup>6</sup>Understand, then, that it is not because of your righteousness that the Lord your God is giving you this good land to possess, for you are a stiff-necked people. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Golden Calf </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>Remember this and never forget how you aroused the anger of the Lord your God in the wilderness. From the day you left Egypt until you arrived here, you have been rebellious against the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_8"><sup>8</sup>At Horeb you aroused the Lord’s wrath so that he was angry enough to destroy you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_9"><sup>9</sup>When I went up on the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant that the Lord had made with you, I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights; I ate no bread and drank no water. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_10"><sup>10</sup>The Lord gave me two stone tablets inscribed by the finger of God. On them were all the commandments the Lord proclaimed to you on the mountain out of the fire, on the day of the assembly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_9_11"> <sup>11</sup>At the end of the forty days and forty nights, the Lord gave me the two stone tablets, the tablets of the covenant. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_12"><sup>12</sup>Then the Lord told me, “Go down from here at once, because your people whom you brought out of Egypt have become corrupt. They have turned away quickly from what I commanded them and have made an idol for themselves.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_9_13"> <sup>13</sup>And the Lord said to me, “I have seen this people, and they are a stiff-necked people indeed! </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_14"><sup>14</sup>Let me alone, so that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven. And I will make you into a nation stronger and more numerous than they.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_9_15"> <sup>15</sup>So I turned and went down from the mountain while it was ablaze with fire. And the two tablets of the covenant were in my hands. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_16"><sup>16</sup>When I looked, I saw that you had sinned against the Lord your God; you had made for yourselves an idol cast in the shape of a calf. You had turned aside quickly from the way that the Lord had commanded you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_17"><sup>17</sup>So I took the two tablets and threw them out of my hands, breaking them to pieces before your eyes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_9_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then once again I fell prostrate before the Lord for forty days and forty nights; I ate no bread and drank no water, because of all the sin you had committed, doing what was evil in the Lord’s sight and so arousing his anger. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_19"><sup>19</sup>I feared the anger and wrath of the Lord, for he was angry enough with you to destroy you. But again the Lord listened to me. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_20"><sup>20</sup>And the Lord was angry enough with Aaron to destroy him, but at that time I prayed for Aaron too. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_21"><sup>21</sup>Also I took that sinful thing of yours, the calf you had made, and burned it in the fire. Then I crushed it and ground it to powder as fine as dust and threw the dust into a stream that flowed down the mountain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_9_22"> <sup>22</sup>You also made the Lord angry at Taberah, at Massah and at Kibroth Hattaavah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_9_23"> <sup>23</sup>And when the Lord sent you out from Kadesh Barnea, he said, “Go up and take possession of the land I have given you.” But you rebelled against the command of the Lord your God. You did not trust him or obey him. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_24"><sup>24</sup>You have been rebellious against the Lord ever since I have known you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_9_25"> <sup>25</sup>I lay prostrate before the Lord those forty days and forty nights because the Lord had said he would destroy you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_26"><sup>26</sup>I prayed to the Lord and said, “Sovereign Lord, do not destroy your people, your own inheritance that you redeemed by your great power and brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_27"><sup>27</sup>Remember your servants Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Overlook the stubbornness of this people, their wickedness and their sin. </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_28"><sup>28</sup>Otherwise, the country from which you brought us will say, ‘Because the Lord was not able to take them into the land he had promised them, and because he hated them, he brought them out to put them to death in the wilderness.’ </span>
<span class="verse phu_9_29"><sup>29</sup>But they are your people, your inheritance that you brought out by your great power and your outstretched arm.” <br/></span>
