---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>Tablets Like the First Ones </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>At that time the Lord said to me, “Chisel out two stone tablets like the first ones and come up to me on the mountain. Also make a wooden ark.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, a chest">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse phu_10_2"><sup>2</sup>I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke. Then you are to put them in the ark.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_10_3"> <sup>3</sup>So I made the ark out of acacia wood and chiseled out two stone tablets like the first ones, and I went up on the mountain with the two tablets in my hands. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_4"><sup>4</sup>The Lord wrote on these tablets what he had written before, the Ten Commandments he had proclaimed to you on the mountain, out of the fire, on the day of the assembly. And the Lord gave them to me. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_5"><sup>5</sup>Then I came back down the mountain and put the tablets in the ark I had made, as the Lord commanded me, and they are there now. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_10_6"> <sup>6</sup>(The Israelites traveled from the wells of Bene Jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died and was buried, and Eleazar his son succeeded him as priest. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_7"><sup>7</sup>From there they traveled to Gudgodah and on to Jotbathah, a land with streams of water. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_8"><sup>8</sup>At that time the Lord set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord to minister and to pronounce blessings in his name, as they still do today. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_9"><sup>9</sup>That is why the Levites have no share or inheritance among their fellow Israelites; the Lord is their inheritance, as the Lord your God told them.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_10_10"> <sup>10</sup>Now I had stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights, as I did the first time, and the Lord listened to me at this time also. It was not his will to destroy you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_11"><sup>11</sup>“Go,” the Lord said to me, “and lead the people on their way, so that they may enter and possess the land I swore to their ancestors to give them.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Fear the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God ask of you but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in obedience to him, to love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_13"><sup>13</sup>and to observe the Lord’s commands and decrees that I am giving you today for your own good? <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_10_14"> <sup>14</sup>To the Lord your God belong the heavens, even the highest heavens, the earth and everything in it. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_15"><sup>15</sup>Yet the Lord set his affection on your ancestors and loved them, and he chose you, their descendants, above all the nations—as it is today. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_16"><sup>16</sup>Circumcise your hearts, therefore, and do not be stiff-necked any longer. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_17"><sup>17</sup>For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who shows no partiality and accepts no bribes. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_18"><sup>18</sup>He defends the cause of the fatherless and the widow, and loves the foreigner residing among you, giving them food and clothing. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_19"><sup>19</sup>And you are to love those who are foreigners, for you yourselves were foreigners in Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_20"><sup>20</sup>Fear the Lord your God and serve him. Hold fast to him and take your oaths in his name. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_21"><sup>21</sup>He is the one you praise; he is your God, who performed for you those great and awesome wonders you saw with your own eyes. </span>
<span class="verse phu_10_22"><sup>22</sup>Your ancestors who went down into Egypt were seventy in all, and now the Lord your God has made you as numerous as the stars in the sky. <br/></span>
