---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>Love and Obey the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Love the Lord your God and keep his requirements, his decrees, his laws and his commands always. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_2"><sup>2</sup>Remember today that your children were not the ones who saw and experienced the discipline of the Lord your God: his majesty, his mighty hand, his outstretched arm; </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_3"><sup>3</sup>the signs he performed and the things he did in the heart of Egypt, both to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to his whole country; </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_4"><sup>4</sup>what he did to the Egyptian army, to its horses and chariots, how he overwhelmed them with the waters of the Red Sea<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a> as they were pursuing you, and how the Lord brought lasting ruin on them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_5"><sup>5</sup>It was not your children who saw what he did for you in the wilderness until you arrived at this place, </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_6"><sup>6</sup>and what he did to Dathan and Abiram, sons of Eliab the Reubenite, when the earth opened its mouth right in the middle of all Israel and swallowed them up with their households, their tents and every living thing that belonged to them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_7"><sup>7</sup>But it was your own eyes that saw all these great things the Lord has done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_11_8"> <sup>8</sup>Observe therefore all the commands I am giving you today, so that you may have the strength to go in and take over the land that you are crossing the Jordan to possess, </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_9"><sup>9</sup>and so that you may live long in the land the Lord swore to your ancestors to give to them and their descendants, a land flowing with milk and honey. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_10"><sup>10</sup>The land you are entering to take over is not like the land of Egypt, from which you have come, where you planted your seed and irrigated it by foot as in a vegetable garden. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_11"><sup>11</sup>But the land you are crossing the Jordan to take possession of is a land of mountains and valleys that drinks rain from heaven. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_12"><sup>12</sup>It is a land the Lord your God cares for; the eyes of the Lord your God are continually on it from the beginning of the year to its end. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>So if you faithfully obey the commands I am giving you today—to love the Lord your God and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul— </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_14"><sup>14</sup>then I will send rain on your land in its season, both autumn and spring rains, so that you may gather in your grain, new wine and olive oil. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_15"><sup>15</sup>I will provide grass in the fields for your cattle, and you will eat and be satisfied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_11_16"> <sup>16</sup>Be careful, or you will be enticed to turn away and worship other gods and bow down to them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_17"><sup>17</sup>Then the Lord’s anger will burn against you, and he will shut up the heavens so that it will not rain and the ground will yield no produce, and you will soon perish from the good land the Lord is giving you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_18"><sup>18</sup>Fix these words of mine in your hearts and minds; tie them as symbols on your hands and bind them on your foreheads. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_19"><sup>19</sup>Teach them to your children, talking about them when you sit at home and when you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_20"><sup>20</sup>Write them on the doorframes of your houses and on your gates, </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_21"><sup>21</sup>so that your days and the days of your children may be many in the land the Lord swore to give your ancestors, as many as the days that the heavens are above the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>If you carefully observe all these commands I am giving you to follow—to love the Lord your God, to walk in obedience to him and to hold fast to him— </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_23"><sup>23</sup>then the Lord will drive out all these nations before you, and you will dispossess nations larger and stronger than you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_24"><sup>24</sup>Every place where you set your foot will be yours: Your territory will extend from the desert to Lebanon, and from the Euphrates River to the Mediterranean Sea. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_25"><sup>25</sup>No one will be able to stand against you. The Lord your God, as he promised you, will put the terror and fear of you on the whole land, wherever you go. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_11_26"> <sup>26</sup>See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse— </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_27"><sup>27</sup>the blessing if you obey the commands of the Lord your God that I am giving you today; </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_28"><sup>28</sup>the curse if you disobey the commands of the Lord your God and turn from the way that I command you today by following other gods, which you have not known. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_29"><sup>29</sup>When the Lord your God has brought you into the land you are entering to possess, you are to proclaim on Mount Gerizim the blessings, and on Mount Ebal the curses. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_30"><sup>30</sup>As you know, these mountains are across the Jordan, westward, toward the setting sun, near the great trees of Moreh, in the territory of those Canaanites living in the Arabah in the vicinity of Gilgal. </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_31"><sup>31</sup>You are about to cross the Jordan to enter and take possession of the land the Lord your God is giving you. When you have taken it over and are living there, </span>
<span class="verse phu_11_32"><sup>32</sup>be sure that you obey all the decrees and laws I am setting before you today. <br/></span>
