---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>The One Place of Worship </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>These are the decrees and laws you must be careful to follow in the land that the Lord, the God of your ancestors, has given you to possess—as long as you live in the land. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_2"><sup>2</sup>Destroy completely all the places on the high mountains, on the hills and under every spreading tree, where the nations you are dispossessing worship their gods. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_3"><sup>3</sup>Break down their altars, smash their sacred stones and burn their Asherah poles in the fire; cut down the idols of their gods and wipe out their names from those places. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_12_4"> <sup>4</sup>You must not worship the Lord your God in their way. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_5"><sup>5</sup>But you are to seek the place the Lord your God will choose from among all your tribes to put his Name there for his dwelling. To that place you must go; </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_6"><sup>6</sup>there bring your burnt offerings and sacrifices, your tithes and special gifts, what you have vowed to give and your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herds and flocks. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_7"><sup>7</sup>There, in the presence of the Lord your God, you and your families shall eat and shall rejoice in everything you have put your hand to, because the Lord your God has blessed you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>You are not to do as we do here today, everyone doing as they see fit, </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_9"><sup>9</sup>since you have not yet reached the resting place and the inheritance the Lord your God is giving you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_10"><sup>10</sup>But you will cross the Jordan and settle in the land the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance, and he will give you rest from all your enemies around you so that you will live in safety. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_11"><sup>11</sup>Then to the place the Lord your God will choose as a dwelling for his Name—there you are to bring everything I command you: your burnt offerings and sacrifices, your tithes and special gifts, and all the choice possessions you have vowed to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_12"><sup>12</sup>And there rejoice before the Lord your God—you, your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, and the Levites from your towns who have no allotment or inheritance of their own. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_13"><sup>13</sup>Be careful not to sacrifice your burnt offerings anywhere you please. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_14"><sup>14</sup>Offer them only at the place the Lord will choose in one of your tribes, and there observe everything I command you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_12_15"> <sup>15</sup>Nevertheless, you may slaughter your animals in any of your towns and eat as much of the meat as you want, as if it were gazelle or deer, according to the blessing the Lord your God gives you. Both the ceremonially unclean and the clean may eat it. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_16"><sup>16</sup>But you must not eat the blood; pour it out on the ground like water. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_17"><sup>17</sup>You must not eat in your own towns the tithe of your grain and new wine and olive oil, or the firstborn of your herds and flocks, or whatever you have vowed to give, or your freewill offerings or special gifts. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_18"><sup>18</sup>Instead, you are to eat them in the presence of the Lord your God at the place the Lord your God will choose—you, your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, and the Levites from your towns—and you are to rejoice before the Lord your God in everything you put your hand to. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_19"><sup>19</sup>Be careful not to neglect the Levites as long as you live in your land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_12_20"> <sup>20</sup>When the Lord your God has enlarged your territory as he promised you, and you crave meat and say, “I would like some meat,” then you may eat as much of it as you want. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_21"><sup>21</sup>If the place where the Lord your God chooses to put his Name is too far away from you, you may slaughter animals from the herds and flocks the Lord has given you, as I have commanded you, and in your own towns you may eat as much of them as you want. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_22"><sup>22</sup>Eat them as you would gazelle or deer. Both the ceremonially unclean and the clean may eat. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_23"><sup>23</sup>But be sure you do not eat the blood, because the blood is the life, and you must not eat the life with the meat. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_24"><sup>24</sup>You must not eat the blood; pour it out on the ground like water. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_25"><sup>25</sup>Do not eat it, so that it may go well with you and your children after you, because you will be doing what is right in the eyes of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_12_26"> <sup>26</sup>But take your consecrated things and whatever you have vowed to give, and go to the place the Lord will choose. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_27"><sup>27</sup>Present your burnt offerings on the altar of the Lord your God, both the meat and the blood. The blood of your sacrifices must be poured beside the altar of the Lord your God, but you may eat the meat. </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_28"><sup>28</sup>Be careful to obey all these regulations I am giving you, so that it may always go well with you and your children after you, because you will be doing what is good and right in the eyes of the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_12_29"> <sup>29</sup>The Lord your God will cut off before you the nations you are about to invade and dispossess. But when you have driven them out and settled in their land, </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_30"><sup>30</sup>and after they have been destroyed before you, be careful not to be ensnared by inquiring about their gods, saying, “How do these nations serve their gods? We will do the same.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_12_31"><sup>31</sup>You must not worship the Lord your God in their way, because in worshiping their gods, they do all kinds of detestable things the Lord hates. They even burn their sons and daughters in the fire as sacrifices to their gods. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_12_32"> <sup>32</sup>See that you do all I command you; do not add to it or take away from it.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts this verse (12:32) is numbered 13:1.">⚓</a><br/></span>
