---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>Clean and Unclean Food </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>You are the children of the Lord your God. Do not cut yourselves or shave the front of your heads for the dead, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_2"><sup>2</sup>for you are a people holy to the Lord your God. Out of all the peoples on the face of the earth, the Lord has chosen you to be his treasured possession. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_14_3"> <sup>3</sup>Do not eat any detestable thing. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_4"><sup>4</sup>These are the animals you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_5"><sup>5</sup>the deer, the gazelle, the roe deer, the wild goat, the ibex, the antelope and the mountain sheep.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The precise identification of some of the birds and animals in this chapter is uncertain.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse phu_14_6"><sup>6</sup>You may eat any animal that has a divided hoof and that chews the cud. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_7"><sup>7</sup>However, of those that chew the cud or that have a divided hoof you may not eat the camel, the rabbit or the hyrax. Although they chew the cud, they do not have a divided hoof; they are ceremonially unclean for you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_8"><sup>8</sup>The pig is also unclean; although it has a divided hoof, it does not chew the cud. You are not to eat their meat or touch their carcasses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_14_9"> <sup>9</sup>Of all the creatures living in the water, you may eat any that has fins and scales. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_10"><sup>10</sup>But anything that does not have fins and scales you may not eat; for you it is unclean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_14_11"> <sup>11</sup>You may eat any clean bird. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_12"><sup>12</sup>But these you may not eat: the eagle, the vulture, the black vulture, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_13"><sup>13</sup>the red kite, the black kite, any kind of falcon, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_14"><sup>14</sup>any kind of raven, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_15"><sup>15</sup>the horned owl, the screech owl, the gull, any kind of hawk, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_16"><sup>16</sup>the little owl, the great owl, the white owl, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_17"><sup>17</sup>the desert owl, the osprey, the cormorant, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_18"><sup>18</sup>the stork, any kind of heron, the hoopoe and the bat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_14_19"> <sup>19</sup>All flying insects are unclean to you; do not eat them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_20"><sup>20</sup>But any winged creature that is clean you may eat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_14_21"> <sup>21</sup>Do not eat anything you find already dead. You may give it to the foreigner residing in any of your towns, and they may eat it, or you may sell it to any other foreigner. But you are a people holy to the Lord your God. <br/> Do not cook a young goat in its mother’s milk. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Tithes </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_14_22"> <sup>22</sup>Be sure to set aside a tenth of all that your fields produce each year. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_23"><sup>23</sup>Eat the tithe of your grain, new wine and olive oil, and the firstborn of your herds and flocks in the presence of the Lord your God at the place he will choose as a dwelling for his Name, so that you may learn to revere the Lord your God always. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_24"><sup>24</sup>But if that place is too distant and you have been blessed by the Lord your God and cannot carry your tithe (because the place where the Lord will choose to put his Name is so far away), </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_25"><sup>25</sup>then exchange your tithe for silver, and take the silver with you and go to the place the Lord your God will choose. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_26"><sup>26</sup>Use the silver to buy whatever you like: cattle, sheep, wine or other fermented drink, or anything you wish. Then you and your household shall eat there in the presence of the Lord your God and rejoice. </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_27"><sup>27</sup>And do not neglect the Levites living in your towns, for they have no allotment or inheritance of their own. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_14_28"> <sup>28</sup>At the end of every three years, bring all the tithes of that year’s produce and store it in your towns, </span>
<span class="verse phu_14_29"><sup>29</sup>so that the Levites (who have no allotment or inheritance of their own) and the foreigners, the fatherless and the widows who live in your towns may come and eat and be satisfied, and so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. <br/></span>
