---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>The Passover </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>Observe the month of Aviv and celebrate the Passover of the Lord your God, because in the month of Aviv he brought you out of Egypt by night. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_2"><sup>2</sup>Sacrifice as the Passover to the Lord your God an animal from your flock or herd at the place the Lord will choose as a dwelling for his Name. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_3"><sup>3</sup>Do not eat it with bread made with yeast, but for seven days eat unleavened bread, the bread of affliction, because you left Egypt in haste—so that all the days of your life you may remember the time of your departure from Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_4"><sup>4</sup>Let no yeast be found in your possession in all your land for seven days. Do not let any of the meat you sacrifice on the evening of the first day remain until morning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_16_5"> <sup>5</sup>You must not sacrifice the Passover in any town the Lord your God gives you </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_6"><sup>6</sup>except in the place he will choose as a dwelling for his Name. There you must sacrifice the Passover in the evening, when the sun goes down, on the anniversary<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or down, at the time of day">⚓</a> of your departure from Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_7"><sup>7</sup>Roast it and eat it at the place the Lord your God will choose. Then in the morning return to your tents. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_8"><sup>8</sup>For six days eat unleavened bread and on the seventh day hold an assembly to the Lord your God and do no work. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Festival of Weeks </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_16_9"> <sup>9</sup>Count off seven weeks from the time you begin to put the sickle to the standing grain. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_10"><sup>10</sup>Then celebrate the Festival of Weeks to the Lord your God by giving a freewill offering in proportion to the blessings the Lord your God has given you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_11"><sup>11</sup>And rejoice before the Lord your God at the place he will choose as a dwelling for his Name—you, your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, the Levites in your towns, and the foreigners, the fatherless and the widows living among you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_12"><sup>12</sup>Remember that you were slaves in Egypt, and follow carefully these decrees. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Festival of Tabernacles </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_16_13"> <sup>13</sup>Celebrate the Festival of Tabernacles for seven days after you have gathered the produce of your threshing floor and your winepress. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_14"><sup>14</sup>Be joyful at your festival—you, your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, and the Levites, the foreigners, the fatherless and the widows who live in your towns. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_15"><sup>15</sup>For seven days celebrate the festival to the Lord your God at the place the Lord will choose. For the Lord your God will bless you in all your harvest and in all the work of your hands, and your joy will be complete. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_16_16"> <sup>16</sup>Three times a year all your men must appear before the Lord your God at the place he will choose: at the Festival of Unleavened Bread, the Festival of Weeks and the Festival of Tabernacles. No one should appear before the Lord empty-handed: </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_17"><sup>17</sup>Each of you must bring a gift in proportion to the way the Lord your God has blessed you. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Judges </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_16_18"> <sup>18</sup>Appoint judges and officials for each of your tribes in every town the Lord your God is giving you, and they shall judge the people fairly. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_19"><sup>19</sup>Do not pervert justice or show partiality. Do not accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of the innocent. </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_20"><sup>20</sup>Follow justice and justice alone, so that you may live and possess the land the Lord your God is giving you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_16_21"> <sup>21</sup>Do not set up any wooden Asherah pole beside the altar you build to the Lord your God, </span>
<span class="verse phu_16_22"><sup>22</sup>and do not erect a sacred stone, for these the Lord your God hates. <br/></span>
