---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>Worshiping Other Gods </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>Do not sacrifice to the Lord your God an ox or a sheep that has any defect or flaw in it, for that would be detestable to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_17_2"> <sup>2</sup>If a man or woman living among you in one of the towns the Lord gives you is found doing evil in the eyes of the Lord your God in violation of his covenant, </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_3"><sup>3</sup>and contrary to my command has worshiped other gods, bowing down to them or to the sun or the moon or the stars in the sky, </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_4"><sup>4</sup>and this has been brought to your attention, then you must investigate it thoroughly. If it is true and it has been proved that this detestable thing has been done in Israel, </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_5"><sup>5</sup>take the man or woman who has done this evil deed to your city gate and stone that person to death. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_6"><sup>6</sup>On the testimony of two or three witnesses a person is to be put to death, but no one is to be put to death on the testimony of only one witness. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_7"><sup>7</sup>The hands of the witnesses must be the first in putting that person to death, and then the hands of all the people. You must purge the evil from among you. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Law Courts </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_17_8"> <sup>8</sup>If cases come before your courts that are too difficult for you to judge—whether bloodshed, lawsuits or assaults—take them to the place the Lord your God will choose. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_9"><sup>9</sup>Go to the Levitical priests and to the judge who is in office at that time. Inquire of them and they will give you the verdict. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_10"><sup>10</sup>You must act according to the decisions they give you at the place the Lord will choose. Be careful to do everything they instruct you to do. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_11"><sup>11</sup>Act according to whatever they teach you and the decisions they give you. Do not turn aside from what they tell you, to the right or to the left. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_12"><sup>12</sup>Anyone who shows contempt for the judge or for the priest who stands ministering there to the Lord your God is to be put to death. You must purge the evil from Israel. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_13"><sup>13</sup>All the people will hear and be afraid, and will not be contemptuous again. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The King </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_17_14"> <sup>14</sup>When you enter the land the Lord your God is giving you and have taken possession of it and settled in it, and you say, “Let us set a king over us like all the nations around us,” </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_15"><sup>15</sup>be sure to appoint over you a king the Lord your God chooses. He must be from among your fellow Israelites. Do not place a foreigner over you, one who is not an Israelite. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_16"><sup>16</sup>The king, moreover, must not acquire great numbers of horses for himself or make the people return to Egypt to get more of them, for the Lord has told you, “You are not to go back that way again.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_17"><sup>17</sup>He must not take many wives, or his heart will be led astray. He must not accumulate large amounts of silver and gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_17_18"> <sup>18</sup>When he takes the throne of his kingdom, he is to write for himself on a scroll a copy of this law, taken from that of the Levitical priests. </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_19"><sup>19</sup>It is to be with him, and he is to read it all the days of his life so that he may learn to revere the Lord his God and follow carefully all the words of this law and these decrees </span>
<span class="verse phu_17_20"><sup>20</sup>and not consider himself better than his fellow Israelites and turn from the law to the right or to the left. Then he and his descendants will reign a long time over his kingdom in Israel. <br/></span>
