---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>Offerings for Priests and Levites </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Levitical priests—indeed, the whole tribe of Levi—are to have no allotment or inheritance with Israel. They shall live on the food offerings presented to the Lord, for that is their inheritance. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_2"><sup>2</sup>They shall have no inheritance among their fellow Israelites; the Lord is their inheritance, as he promised them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_18_3"> <sup>3</sup>This is the share due the priests from the people who sacrifice a bull or a sheep: the shoulder, the internal organs and the meat from the head. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_4"><sup>4</sup>You are to give them the firstfruits of your grain, new wine and olive oil, and the first wool from the shearing of your sheep, </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_5"><sup>5</sup>for the Lord your God has chosen them and their descendants out of all your tribes to stand and minister in the Lord’s name always. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_18_6"> <sup>6</sup>If a Levite moves from one of your towns anywhere in Israel where he is living, and comes in all earnestness to the place the Lord will choose, </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_7"><sup>7</sup>he may minister in the name of the Lord his God like all his fellow Levites who serve there in the presence of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_8"><sup>8</sup>He is to share equally in their benefits, even though he has received money from the sale of family possessions. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Occult Practices </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>When you enter the land the Lord your God is giving you, do not learn to imitate the detestable ways of the nations there. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_10"><sup>10</sup>Let no one be found among you who sacrifices their son or daughter in the fire, who practices divination or sorcery, interprets omens, engages in witchcraft, </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_11"><sup>11</sup>or casts spells, or who is a medium or spiritist or who consults the dead. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_12"><sup>12</sup>Anyone who does these things is detestable to the Lord; because of these same detestable practices the Lord your God will drive out those nations before you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_13"><sup>13</sup>You must be blameless before the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Prophet </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_18_14"> <sup>14</sup>The nations you will dispossess listen to those who practice sorcery or divination. But as for you, the Lord your God has not permitted you to do so. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_15"><sup>15</sup>The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your fellow Israelites. You must listen to him. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_16"><sup>16</sup>For this is what you asked of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly when you said, “Let us not hear the voice of the Lord our God nor see this great fire anymore, or we will die.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_18_17"> <sup>17</sup>The Lord said to me: “What they say is good. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_18"><sup>18</sup>I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their fellow Israelites, and I will put my words in his mouth. He will tell them everything I command him. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_19"><sup>19</sup>I myself will call to account anyone who does not listen to my words that the prophet speaks in my name. </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_20"><sup>20</sup>But a prophet who presumes to speak in my name anything I have not commanded, or a prophet who speaks in the name of other gods, is to be put to death.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_18_21"> <sup>21</sup>You may say to yourselves, “How can we know when a message has not been spoken by the Lord?” </span>
<span class="verse phu_18_22"><sup>22</sup>If what a prophet proclaims in the name of the Lord does not take place or come true, that is a message the Lord has not spoken. That prophet has spoken presumptuously, so do not be alarmed. <br/></span>
