---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>Cities of Refuge </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the Lord your God has destroyed the nations whose land he is giving you, and when you have driven them out and settled in their towns and houses, </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_2"><sup>2</sup>then set aside for yourselves three cities in the land the Lord your God is giving you to possess. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_3"><sup>3</sup>Determine the distances involved and divide into three parts the land the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance, so that a person who kills someone may flee for refuge to one of these cities. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_19_4"> <sup>4</sup>This is the rule concerning anyone who kills a person and flees there for safety—anyone who kills a neighbor unintentionally, without malice aforethought. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_5"><sup>5</sup>For instance, a man may go into the forest with his neighbor to cut wood, and as he swings his ax to fell a tree, the head may fly off and hit his neighbor and kill him. That man may flee to one of these cities and save his life. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_6"><sup>6</sup>Otherwise, the avenger of blood might pursue him in a rage, overtake him if the distance is too great, and kill him even though he is not deserving of death, since he did it to his neighbor without malice aforethought. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_7"><sup>7</sup>This is why I command you to set aside for yourselves three cities. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_19_8"> <sup>8</sup>If the Lord your God enlarges your territory, as he promised on oath to your ancestors, and gives you the whole land he promised them, </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_9"><sup>9</sup>because you carefully follow all these laws I command you today—to love the Lord your God and to walk always in obedience to him—then you are to set aside three more cities. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_10"><sup>10</sup>Do this so that innocent blood will not be shed in your land, which the Lord your God is giving you as your inheritance, and so that you will not be guilty of bloodshed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_19_11"> <sup>11</sup>But if out of hate someone lies in wait, assaults and kills a neighbor, and then flees to one of these cities, </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_12"><sup>12</sup>the killer shall be sent for by the town elders, be brought back from the city, and be handed over to the avenger of blood to die. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_13"><sup>13</sup>Show no pity. You must purge from Israel the guilt of shedding innocent blood, so that it may go well with you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_19_14"> <sup>14</sup>Do not move your neighbor’s boundary stone set up by your predecessors in the inheritance you receive in the land the Lord your God is giving you to possess. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Witnesses </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_19_15"> <sup>15</sup>One witness is not enough to convict anyone accused of any crime or offense they may have committed. A matter must be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_19_16"> <sup>16</sup>If a malicious witness takes the stand to accuse someone of a crime, </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_17"><sup>17</sup>the two people involved in the dispute must stand in the presence of the Lord before the priests and the judges who are in office at the time. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_18"><sup>18</sup>The judges must make a thorough investigation, and if the witness proves to be a liar, giving false testimony against a fellow Israelite, </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_19"><sup>19</sup>then do to the false witness as that witness intended to do to the other party. You must purge the evil from among you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_20"><sup>20</sup>The rest of the people will hear of this and be afraid, and never again will such an evil thing be done among you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_19_21"><sup>21</sup>Show no pity: life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. <br/></span>
