---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>Various Laws </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>If you see your fellow Israelite’s ox or sheep straying, do not ignore it but be sure to take it back to its owner. </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_2"><sup>2</sup>If they do not live near you or if you do not know who owns it, take it home with you and keep it until they come looking for it. Then give it back. </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_3"><sup>3</sup>Do the same if you find their donkey or cloak or anything else they have lost. Do not ignore it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_4"> <sup>4</sup>If you see your fellow Israelite’s donkey or ox fallen on the road, do not ignore it. Help the owner get it to its feet. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_5"> <sup>5</sup>A woman must not wear men’s clothing, nor a man wear women’s clothing, for the Lord your God detests anyone who does this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>If you come across a bird’s nest beside the road, either in a tree or on the ground, and the mother is sitting on the young or on the eggs, do not take the mother with the young. </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_7"><sup>7</sup>You may take the young, but be sure to let the mother go, so that it may go well with you and you may have a long life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_8"> <sup>8</sup>When you build a new house, make a parapet around your roof so that you may not bring the guilt of bloodshed on your house if someone falls from the roof. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_9"> <sup>9</sup>Do not plant two kinds of seed in your vineyard; if you do, not only the crops you plant but also the fruit of the vineyard will be defiled.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or be forfeited to the sanctuary">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_10"> <sup>10</sup>Do not plow with an ox and a donkey yoked together. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_11"> <sup>11</sup>Do not wear clothes of wool and linen woven together. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_12"> <sup>12</sup>Make tassels on the four corners of the cloak you wear. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Marriage Violations </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_22_13"> <sup>13</sup>If a man takes a wife and, after sleeping with her, dislikes her </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_14"><sup>14</sup>and slanders her and gives her a bad name, saying, “I married this woman, but when I approached her, I did not find proof of her virginity,” </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_15"><sup>15</sup>then the young woman’s father and mother shall bring to the town elders at the gate proof that she was a virgin. </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_16"><sup>16</sup>Her father will say to the elders, “I gave my daughter in marriage to this man, but he dislikes her. </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_17"><sup>17</sup>Now he has slandered her and said, ‘I did not find your daughter to be a virgin.’ But here is the proof of my daughter’s virginity.” Then her parents shall display the cloth before the elders of the town, </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_18"><sup>18</sup>and the elders shall take the man and punish him. </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_19"><sup>19</sup>They shall fine him a hundred shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 2 1/2 pounds or about 1.2 kilograms">⚓</a> of silver and give them to the young woman’s father, because this man has given an Israelite virgin a bad name. She shall continue to be his wife; he must not divorce her as long as he lives. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_20"> <sup>20</sup>If, however, the charge is true and no proof of the young woman’s virginity can be found, </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_21"><sup>21</sup>she shall be brought to the door of her father’s house and there the men of her town shall stone her to death. She has done an outrageous thing in Israel by being promiscuous while still in her father’s house. You must purge the evil from among you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_22"> <sup>22</sup>If a man is found sleeping with another man’s wife, both the man who slept with her and the woman must die. You must purge the evil from Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_23"> <sup>23</sup>If a man happens to meet in a town a virgin pledged to be married and he sleeps with her, </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_24"><sup>24</sup>you shall take both of them to the gate of that town and stone them to death—the young woman because she was in a town and did not scream for help, and the man because he violated another man’s wife. You must purge the evil from among you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_25"> <sup>25</sup>But if out in the country a man happens to meet a young woman pledged to be married and rapes her, only the man who has done this shall die. </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_26"><sup>26</sup>Do nothing to the woman; she has committed no sin deserving death. This case is like that of someone who attacks and murders a neighbor, </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_27"><sup>27</sup>for the man found the young woman out in the country, and though the betrothed woman screamed, there was no one to rescue her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_28"> <sup>28</sup>If a man happens to meet a virgin who is not pledged to be married and rapes her and they are discovered, </span>
<span class="verse phu_22_29"><sup>29</sup>he shall pay her father fifty shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1 1/4 pounds or about 575 grams">⚓</a> of silver. He must marry the young woman, for he has violated her. He can never divorce her as long as he lives. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_22_30"> <sup>30</sup>A man is not to marry his father’s wife; he must not dishonor his father’s bed.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts this verse (22:30) is numbered 23:1.">⚓</a><br/></span>
