---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>Exclusion From the Assembly </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>No one who has been emasculated by crushing or cutting may enter the assembly of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_23_2"> <sup>2</sup>No one born of a forbidden marriage<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or one of illegitimate birth">⚓</a> nor any of their descendants may enter the assembly of the Lord, not even in the tenth generation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_23_3"> <sup>3</sup>No Ammonite or Moabite or any of their descendants may enter the assembly of the Lord, not even in the tenth generation. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_4"><sup>4</sup>For they did not come to meet you with bread and water on your way when you came out of Egypt, and they hired Balaam son of Beor from Pethor in Aram Naharaim<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Northwest Mesopotamia">⚓</a> to pronounce a curse on you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_5"><sup>5</sup>However, the Lord your God would not listen to Balaam but turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the Lord your God loves you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_6"><sup>6</sup>Do not seek a treaty of friendship with them as long as you live. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_23_7"> <sup>7</sup>Do not despise an Edomite, for the Edomites are related to you. Do not despise an Egyptian, because you resided as foreigners in their country. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_8"><sup>8</sup>The third generation of children born to them may enter the assembly of the Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Uncleanness in the Camp </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_23_9"> <sup>9</sup>When you are encamped against your enemies, keep away from everything impure. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_10"><sup>10</sup>If one of your men is unclean because of a nocturnal emission, he is to go outside the camp and stay there. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_11"><sup>11</sup>But as evening approaches he is to wash himself, and at sunset he may return to the camp. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_23_12"> <sup>12</sup>Designate a place outside the camp where you can go to relieve yourself. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_13"><sup>13</sup>As part of your equipment have something to dig with, and when you relieve yourself, dig a hole and cover up your excrement. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_14"><sup>14</sup>For the Lord your God moves about in your camp to protect you and to deliver your enemies to you. Your camp must be holy, so that he will not see among you anything indecent and turn away from you. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Miscellaneous Laws </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_23_15"> <sup>15</sup>If a slave has taken refuge with you, do not hand them over to their master. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_16"><sup>16</sup>Let them live among you wherever they like and in whatever town they choose. Do not oppress them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_23_17"> <sup>17</sup>No Israelite man or woman is to become a shrine prostitute. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_18"><sup>18</sup>You must not bring the earnings of a female prostitute or of a male prostitute<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew of a dog">⚓</a> into the house of the Lord your God to pay any vow, because the Lord your God detests them both. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_23_19"> <sup>19</sup>Do not charge a fellow Israelite interest, whether on money or food or anything else that may earn interest. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_20"><sup>20</sup>You may charge a foreigner interest, but not a fellow Israelite, so that the Lord your God may bless you in everything you put your hand to in the land you are entering to possess. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_23_21"> <sup>21</sup>If you make a vow to the Lord your God, do not be slow to pay it, for the Lord your God will certainly demand it of you and you will be guilty of sin. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_22"><sup>22</sup>But if you refrain from making a vow, you will not be guilty. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_23"><sup>23</sup>Whatever your lips utter you must be sure to do, because you made your vow freely to the Lord your God with your own mouth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_23_24"> <sup>24</sup>If you enter your neighbor’s vineyard, you may eat all the grapes you want, but do not put any in your basket. </span>
<span class="verse phu_23_25"><sup>25</sup>If you enter your neighbor’s grainfield, you may pick kernels with your hands, but you must not put a sickle to their standing grain. <br/></span>
