---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1></div>
<span class="verse phu_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>If a man marries a woman who becomes displeasing to him because he finds something indecent about her, and he writes her a certificate of divorce, gives it to her and sends her from his house, </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_2"><sup>2</sup>and if after she leaves his house she becomes the wife of another man, </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_3"><sup>3</sup>and her second husband dislikes her and writes her a certificate of divorce, gives it to her and sends her from his house, or if he dies, </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_4"><sup>4</sup>then her first husband, who divorced her, is not allowed to marry her again after she has been defiled. That would be detestable in the eyes of the Lord. Do not bring sin upon the land the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_5"> <sup>5</sup>If a man has recently married, he must not be sent to war or have any other duty laid on him. For one year he is to be free to stay at home and bring happiness to the wife he has married. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_6"> <sup>6</sup>Do not take a pair of millstones—not even the upper one—as security for a debt, because that would be taking a person’s livelihood as security. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_7"> <sup>7</sup>If someone is caught kidnapping a fellow Israelite and treating or selling them as a slave, the kidnapper must die. You must purge the evil from among you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_8"> <sup>8</sup>In cases of defiling skin diseases,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word for defiling skin diseases , traditionally translated “leprosy,” was used for various diseases affecting the skin.">⚓</a> be very careful to do exactly as the Levitical priests instruct you. You must follow carefully what I have commanded them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_9"><sup>9</sup>Remember what the Lord your God did to Miriam along the way after you came out of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_10"> <sup>10</sup>When you make a loan of any kind to your neighbor, do not go into their house to get what is offered to you as a pledge. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_11"><sup>11</sup>Stay outside and let the neighbor to whom you are making the loan bring the pledge out to you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_12"><sup>12</sup>If the neighbor is poor, do not go to sleep with their pledge in your possession. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_13"><sup>13</sup>Return their cloak by sunset so that your neighbor may sleep in it. Then they will thank you, and it will be regarded as a righteous act in the sight of the Lord your God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_14"> <sup>14</sup>Do not take advantage of a hired worker who is poor and needy, whether that worker is a fellow Israelite or a foreigner residing in one of your towns. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_15"><sup>15</sup>Pay them their wages each day before sunset, because they are poor and are counting on it. Otherwise they may cry to the Lord against you, and you will be guilty of sin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_16"> <sup>16</sup>Parents are not to be put to death for their children, nor children put to death for their parents; each will die for their own sin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_17"> <sup>17</sup>Do not deprive the foreigner or the fatherless of justice, or take the cloak of the widow as a pledge. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_18"><sup>18</sup>Remember that you were slaves in Egypt and the Lord your God redeemed you from there. That is why I command you to do this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_24_19"> <sup>19</sup>When you are harvesting in your field and you overlook a sheaf, do not go back to get it. Leave it for the foreigner, the fatherless and the widow, so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_20"><sup>20</sup>When you beat the olives from your trees, do not go over the branches a second time. Leave what remains for the foreigner, the fatherless and the widow. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_21"><sup>21</sup>When you harvest the grapes in your vineyard, do not go over the vines again. Leave what remains for the foreigner, the fatherless and the widow. </span>
<span class="verse phu_24_22"><sup>22</sup>Remember that you were slaves in Egypt. That is why I command you to do this. <br/></span>
