---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1></div>
<span class="verse phu_25_1"> <sup>1</sup>When people have a dispute, they are to take it to court and the judges will decide the case, acquitting the innocent and condemning the guilty. </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_2"><sup>2</sup>If the guilty person deserves to be beaten, the judge shall make them lie down and have them flogged in his presence with the number of lashes the crime deserves, </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_3"><sup>3</sup>but the judge must not impose more than forty lashes. If the guilty party is flogged more than that, your fellow Israelite will be degraded in your eyes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_25_4"> <sup>4</sup>Do not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_25_5"> <sup>5</sup>If brothers are living together and one of them dies without a son, his widow must not marry outside the family. Her husband’s brother shall take her and marry her and fulfill the duty of a brother-in-law to her. </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_6"><sup>6</sup>The first son she bears shall carry on the name of the dead brother so that his name will not be blotted out from Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_25_7"> <sup>7</sup>However, if a man does not want to marry his brother’s wife, she shall go to the elders at the town gate and say, “My husband’s brother refuses to carry on his brother’s name in Israel. He will not fulfill the duty of a brother-in-law to me.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_8"><sup>8</sup>Then the elders of his town shall summon him and talk to him. If he persists in saying, “I do not want to marry her,” </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_9"><sup>9</sup>his brother’s widow shall go up to him in the presence of the elders, take off one of his sandals, spit in his face and say, “This is what is done to the man who will not build up his brother’s family line.” </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_10"><sup>10</sup>That man’s line shall be known in Israel as The Family of the Unsandaled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_25_11"> <sup>11</sup>If two men are fighting and the wife of one of them comes to rescue her husband from his assailant, and she reaches out and seizes him by his private parts, </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_12"><sup>12</sup>you shall cut off her hand. Show her no pity. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_25_13"> <sup>13</sup>Do not have two differing weights in your bag—one heavy, one light. </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_14"><sup>14</sup>Do not have two differing measures in your house—one large, one small. </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_15"><sup>15</sup>You must have accurate and honest weights and measures, so that you may live long in the land the Lord your God is giving you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_16"><sup>16</sup>For the Lord your God detests anyone who does these things, anyone who deals dishonestly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_25_17"> <sup>17</sup>Remember what the Amalekites did to you along the way when you came out of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_18"><sup>18</sup>When you were weary and worn out, they met you on your journey and attacked all who were lagging behind; they had no fear of God. </span>
<span class="verse phu_25_19"><sup>19</sup>When the Lord your God gives you rest from all the enemies around you in the land he is giving you to possess as an inheritance, you shall blot out the name of Amalek from under heaven. Do not forget! <br/></span>
