---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\27.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>27</h1><h3>The Altar on Mount Ebal </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_27_1"> <sup>1</sup>Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people: “Keep all these commands that I give you today. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_2"><sup>2</sup>When you have crossed the Jordan into the land the Lord your God is giving you, set up some large stones and coat them with plaster. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_3"><sup>3</sup>Write on them all the words of this law when you have crossed over to enter the land the Lord your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey, just as the Lord, the God of your ancestors, promised you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_4"><sup>4</sup>And when you have crossed the Jordan, set up these stones on Mount Ebal, as I command you today, and coat them with plaster. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_5"><sup>5</sup>Build there an altar to the Lord your God, an altar of stones. Do not use any iron tool on them. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_6"><sup>6</sup>Build the altar of the Lord your God with fieldstones and offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_7"><sup>7</sup>Sacrifice fellowship offerings there, eating them and rejoicing in the presence of the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_8"><sup>8</sup>And you shall write very clearly all the words of this law on these stones you have set up.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Curses From Mount Ebal </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_27_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Moses and the Levitical priests said to all Israel, “Be silent, Israel, and listen! You have now become the people of the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_10"><sup>10</sup>Obey the Lord your God and follow his commands and decrees that I give you today.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_11"> <sup>11</sup>On the same day Moses commanded the people: <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_12"> <sup>12</sup>When you have crossed the Jordan, these tribes shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph and Benjamin. </span>
<span class="verse phu_27_13"><sup>13</sup>And these tribes shall stand on Mount Ebal to pronounce curses: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan and Naphtali. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Levites shall recite to all the people of Israel in a loud voice: <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Cursed is anyone who makes an idol—a thing detestable to the Lord, the work of skilled hands—and sets it up in secret.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_16"> <sup>16</sup>“Cursed is anyone who dishonors their father or mother.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Cursed is anyone who moves their neighbor’s boundary stone.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Cursed is anyone who leads the blind astray on the road.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Cursed is anyone who withholds justice from the foreigner, the fatherless or the widow.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_20"> <sup>20</sup>“Cursed is anyone who sleeps with his father’s wife, for he dishonors his father’s bed.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_21"> <sup>21</sup>“Cursed is anyone who has sexual relations with any animal.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_22"> <sup>22</sup>“Cursed is anyone who sleeps with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_23"> <sup>23</sup>“Cursed is anyone who sleeps with his mother-in-law.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_24"> <sup>24</sup>“Cursed is anyone who kills their neighbor secretly.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_25"> <sup>25</sup>“Cursed is anyone who accepts a bribe to kill an innocent person.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_27_26"> <sup>26</sup>“Cursed is anyone who does not uphold the words of this law by carrying them out.” <br/>Then all the people shall say, “Amen!” <br/></span>
