---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\30.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1><h3>Prosperity After Turning to the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_30_1"> <sup>1</sup>When all these blessings and curses I have set before you come on you and you take them to heart wherever the Lord your God disperses you among the nations, </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_2"><sup>2</sup>and when you and your children return to the Lord your God and obey him with all your heart and with all your soul according to everything I command you today, </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_3"><sup>3</sup>then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or will bring you back from captivity">⚓</a> and have compassion on you and gather you again from all the nations where he scattered you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_4"><sup>4</sup>Even if you have been banished to the most distant land under the heavens, from there the Lord your God will gather you and bring you back. </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_5"><sup>5</sup>He will bring you to the land that belonged to your ancestors, and you will take possession of it. He will make you more prosperous and numerous than your ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_6"><sup>6</sup>The Lord your God will circumcise your hearts and the hearts of your descendants, so that you may love him with all your heart and with all your soul, and live. </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_7"><sup>7</sup>The Lord your God will put all these curses on your enemies who hate and persecute you. </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_8"><sup>8</sup>You will again obey the Lord and follow all his commands I am giving you today. </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_9"><sup>9</sup>Then the Lord your God will make you most prosperous in all the work of your hands and in the fruit of your womb, the young of your livestock and the crops of your land. The Lord will again delight in you and make you prosperous, just as he delighted in your ancestors, </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_10"><sup>10</sup>if you obey the Lord your God and keep his commands and decrees that are written in this Book of the Law and turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Offer of Life or Death </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_30_11"> <sup>11</sup>Now what I am commanding you today is not too difficult for you or beyond your reach. </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_12"><sup>12</sup>It is not up in heaven, so that you have to ask, “Who will ascend into heaven to get it and proclaim it to us so we may obey it?” </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_13"><sup>13</sup>Nor is it beyond the sea, so that you have to ask, “Who will cross the sea to get it and proclaim it to us so we may obey it?” </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_14"><sup>14</sup>No, the word is very near you; it is in your mouth and in your heart so you may obey it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_30_15"> <sup>15</sup>See, I set before you today life and prosperity, death and destruction. </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_16"><sup>16</sup>For I command you today to love the Lord your God, to walk in obedience to him, and to keep his commands, decrees and laws; then you will live and increase, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land you are entering to possess. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_30_17"> <sup>17</sup>But if your heart turns away and you are not obedient, and if you are drawn away to bow down to other gods and worship them, </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_18"><sup>18</sup>I declare to you this day that you will certainly be destroyed. You will not live long in the land you are crossing the Jordan to enter and possess. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_30_19"> <sup>19</sup>This day I call the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you that I have set before you life and death, blessings and curses. Now choose life, so that you and your children may live </span>
<span class="verse phu_30_20"><sup>20</sup>and that you may love the Lord your God, listen to his voice, and hold fast to him. For the Lord is your life, and he will give you many years in the land he swore to give to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. <br/></span>
