---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\32.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>32</h1><h3>The Song of Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_32_1">  <sup>1</sup>Listen, you heavens, and I will speak; <br/>   hear, you earth, the words of my mouth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_2">  <sup>2</sup>Let my teaching fall like rain <br/>   and my words descend like dew, <br/>  like showers on new grass, <br/>   like abundant rain on tender plants. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_3">  <sup>3</sup>I will proclaim the name of the Lord. <br/>   Oh, praise the greatness of our God! <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_4">  <sup>4</sup>He is the Rock, his works are perfect, <br/>   and all his ways are just. <br/>  A faithful God who does no wrong, <br/>   upright and just is he. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_5">  <sup>5</sup>They are corrupt and not his children; <br/>   to their shame they are a warped and crooked generation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_6">  <sup>6</sup>Is this the way you repay the Lord, <br/>   you foolish and unwise people? <br/>  Is he not your Father, your Creator,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Father, who bought you">⚓</a><br/>   who made you and formed you? <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_7">  <sup>7</sup>Remember the days of old; <br/>   consider the generations long past. <br/>  Ask your father and he will tell you, <br/>   your elders, and they will explain to you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_8">  <sup>8</sup>When the Most High gave the nations their inheritance, <br/>   when he divided all mankind, <br/>  he set up boundaries for the peoples <br/>   according to the number of the sons of Israel.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls (see also Septuagint) sons of God">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_9">  <sup>9</sup>For the Lord’s portion is his people, <br/>   Jacob his allotted inheritance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_10">  <sup>10</sup>In a desert land he found him, <br/>   in a barren and howling waste. <br/>  He shielded him and cared for him; <br/>   he guarded him as the apple of his eye, <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_11">  <sup>11</sup>like an eagle that stirs up its nest <br/>   and hovers over its young, <br/>  that spreads its wings to catch them <br/>   and carries them aloft. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_12">  <sup>12</sup>The Lord alone led him; <br/>   no foreign god was with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_13">  <sup>13</sup>He made him ride on the heights of the land <br/>   and fed him with the fruit of the fields. <br/>  He nourished him with honey from the rock, <br/>   and with oil from the flinty crag, <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_14">  <sup>14</sup>with curds and milk from herd and flock <br/>   and with fattened lambs and goats, <br/>  with choice rams of Bashan <br/>   and the finest kernels of wheat. <br/>  You drank the foaming blood of the grape. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_15">  <sup>15</sup>Jeshurun<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means the upright one , that is, Israel.">⚓</a> grew fat and kicked; <br/>   filled with food, they became heavy and sleek. <br/>  They abandoned the God who made them <br/>   and rejected the Rock their Savior. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_16">  <sup>16</sup>They made him jealous with their foreign gods <br/>   and angered him with their detestable idols. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_17">  <sup>17</sup>They sacrificed to false gods, which are not God— <br/>   gods they had not known, <br/>   gods that recently appeared, <br/>   gods your ancestors did not fear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_18">  <sup>18</sup>You deserted the Rock, who fathered you; <br/>   you forgot the God who gave you birth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_19">  <sup>19</sup>The Lord saw this and rejected them <br/>   because he was angered by his sons and daughters. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_20">  <sup>20</sup>“I will hide my face from them,” he said, <br/>   “and see what their end will be; <br/>  for they are a perverse generation, <br/>   children who are unfaithful. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_21">  <sup>21</sup>They made me jealous by what is no god <br/>   and angered me with their worthless idols. <br/>  I will make them envious by those who are not a people; <br/>   I will make them angry by a nation that has no understanding. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_22">  <sup>22</sup>For a fire will be kindled by my wrath, <br/>   one that burns down to the realm of the dead below. <br/>  It will devour the earth and its harvests <br/>   and set afire the foundations of the mountains. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_23">  <sup>23</sup>“I will heap calamities on them <br/>   and spend my arrows against them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_24">  <sup>24</sup>I will send wasting famine against them, <br/>   consuming pestilence and deadly plague; <br/>  I will send against them the fangs of wild beasts, <br/>   the venom of vipers that glide in the dust. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_25">  <sup>25</sup>In the street the sword will make them childless; <br/>   in their homes terror will reign. <br/>  The young men and young women will perish, <br/>   the infants and those with gray hair. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_26">  <sup>26</sup>I said I would scatter them <br/>   and erase their name from human memory, <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_27">  <sup>27</sup>but I dreaded the taunt of the enemy, <br/>   lest the adversary misunderstand <br/>  and say, ‘Our hand has triumphed; <br/>   the Lord has not done all this.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_28">  <sup>28</sup>They are a nation without sense, <br/>   there is no discernment in them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_29">  <sup>29</sup>If only they were wise and would understand this <br/>   and discern what their end will be! <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_30">  <sup>30</sup>How could one man chase a thousand, <br/>   or two put ten thousand to flight, <br/>  unless their Rock had sold them, <br/>   unless the Lord had given them up? <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_31">  <sup>31</sup>For their rock is not like our Rock, <br/>   as even our enemies concede. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_32">  <sup>32</sup>Their vine comes from the vine of Sodom <br/>   and from the fields of Gomorrah. <br/>  Their grapes are filled with poison, <br/>   and their clusters with bitterness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_33">  <sup>33</sup>Their wine is the venom of serpents, <br/>   the deadly poison of cobras. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_34">  <sup>34</sup>“Have I not kept this in reserve <br/>   and sealed it in my vaults? <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_35">  <sup>35</sup>It is mine to avenge; I will repay. <br/>   In due time their foot will slip; <br/>  their day of disaster is near <br/>   and their doom rushes upon them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_36">  <sup>36</sup>The Lord will vindicate his people <br/>   and relent concerning his servants <br/>  when he sees their strength is gone <br/>   and no one is left, slave or free.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and they are without a ruler or leader">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_37">  <sup>37</sup>He will say: “Now where are their gods, <br/>   the rock they took refuge in, <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_38">  <sup>38</sup>the gods who ate the fat of their sacrifices <br/>   and drank the wine of their drink offerings? <br/>  Let them rise up to help you! <br/>   Let them give you shelter! <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_39">  <sup>39</sup>“See now that I myself am he! <br/>   There is no god besides me. <br/>  I put to death and I bring to life, <br/>   I have wounded and I will heal, <br/>   and no one can deliver out of my hand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_40">  <sup>40</sup>I lift my hand to heaven and solemnly swear: <br/>   As surely as I live forever, <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_41">  <sup>41</sup>when I sharpen my flashing sword <br/>   and my hand grasps it in judgment, <br/>  I will take vengeance on my adversaries <br/>   and repay those who hate me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_42">  <sup>42</sup>I will make my arrows drunk with blood, <br/>   while my sword devours flesh: <br/>  the blood of the slain and the captives, <br/>   the heads of the enemy leaders.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_43">  <sup>43</sup>Rejoice, you nations, with his people,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Make his people rejoice, you nations">⚓</a><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls (see also Septuagint) people, / and let all the angels worship him, ">⚓</a><br/>   for he will avenge the blood of his servants; <br/>  he will take vengeance on his enemies <br/>   and make atonement for his land and people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_32_44"> <sup>44</sup>Moses came with Joshua<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Hoshea , a variant of Joshua">⚓</a> son of Nun and spoke all the words of this song in the hearing of the people. </span>
<span class="verse phu_32_45"><sup>45</sup>When Moses finished reciting all these words to all Israel, </span>
<span class="verse phu_32_46"><sup>46</sup>he said to them, “Take to heart all the words I have solemnly declared to you this day, so that you may command your children to obey carefully all the words of this law. </span>
<span class="verse phu_32_47"><sup>47</sup>They are not just idle words for you—they are your life. By them you will live long in the land you are crossing the Jordan to possess.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Moses to Die on Mount Nebo </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_32_48"> <sup>48</sup>On that same day the Lord told Moses, </span>
<span class="verse phu_32_49"><sup>49</sup>“Go up into the Abarim Range to Mount Nebo in Moab, across from Jericho, and view Canaan, the land I am giving the Israelites as their own possession. </span>
<span class="verse phu_32_50"><sup>50</sup>There on the mountain that you have climbed you will die and be gathered to your people, just as your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor and was gathered to his people. </span>
<span class="verse phu_32_51"><sup>51</sup>This is because both of you broke faith with me in the presence of the Israelites at the waters of Meribah Kadesh in the Desert of Zin and because you did not uphold my holiness among the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse phu_32_52"><sup>52</sup>Therefore, you will see the land only from a distance; you will not enter the land I am giving to the people of Israel.” <br/></span>
