---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Deuteronomy 
bookNumber: 5
audio: \Audio\NIV\phu\34.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>34</h1><h3>The Death of Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse phu_34_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Moses climbed Mount Nebo from the plains of Moab to the top of Pisgah, across from Jericho. There the Lord showed him the whole land—from Gilead to Dan, </span>
<span class="verse phu_34_2"><sup>2</sup>all of Naphtali, the territory of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the land of Judah as far as the Mediterranean Sea, </span>
<span class="verse phu_34_3"><sup>3</sup>the Negev and the whole region from the Valley of Jericho, the City of Palms, as far as Zoar. </span>
<span class="verse phu_34_4"><sup>4</sup>Then the Lord said to him, “This is the land I promised on oath to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob when I said, ‘I will give it to your descendants.’ I have let you see it with your eyes, but you will not cross over into it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_34_5"> <sup>5</sup>And Moses the servant of the Lord died there in Moab, as the Lord had said. </span>
<span class="verse phu_34_6"><sup>6</sup>He buried him<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or He was buried">⚓</a> in Moab, in the valley opposite Beth Peor, but to this day no one knows where his grave is. </span>
<span class="verse phu_34_7"><sup>7</sup>Moses was a hundred and twenty years old when he died, yet his eyes were not weak nor his strength gone. </span>
<span class="verse phu_34_8"><sup>8</sup>The Israelites grieved for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days, until the time of weeping and mourning was over. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_34_9"> <sup>9</sup>Now Joshua son of Nun was filled with the spirit<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Spirit">⚓</a> of wisdom because Moses had laid his hands on him. So the Israelites listened to him and did what the Lord had commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phu_34_10"> <sup>10</sup>Since then, no prophet has risen in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face, </span>
<span class="verse phu_34_11"><sup>11</sup>who did all those signs and wonders the Lord sent him to do in Egypt—to Pharaoh and to all his officials and to his whole land. </span>
<span class="verse phu_34_12"><sup>12</sup>For no one has ever shown the mighty power or performed the awesome deeds that Moses did in the sight of all Israel. <br/></span>
