---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: James 
bookNumber: 59
audio: \Audio\NIV\gia\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse gia_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, <br/> To the twelve tribes scattered among the nations: <br/> Greetings. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Trials and Temptations </h3></div>
<span class="verse gia_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in verses 16 and 19; and in 2:1, 5, 14; 3:10, 12; 4:11; 5:7, 9, 10, 12, 19.">⚓</a> whenever you face trials of many kinds, </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_3"><sup>3</sup>because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_4"><sup>4</sup>Let perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_5"><sup>5</sup>If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to you. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_6"><sup>6</sup>But when you ask, you must believe and not doubt, because the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_7"><sup>7</sup>That person should not expect to receive anything from the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_8"><sup>8</sup>Such a person is double-minded and unstable in all they do. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>Believers in humble circumstances ought to take pride in their high position. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_10"><sup>10</sup>But the rich should take pride in their humiliation—since they will pass away like a wild flower. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_11"><sup>11</sup>For the sun rises with scorching heat and withers the plant; its blossom falls and its beauty is destroyed. In the same way, the rich will fade away even while they go about their business. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>Blessed is the one who perseveres under trial because, having stood the test, that person will receive the crown of life that the Lord has promised to those who love him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>When tempted, no one should say, “God is tempting me.” For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone; </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_14"><sup>14</sup>but each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_15"><sup>15</sup>Then, after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin; and sin, when it is full-grown, gives birth to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>Don’t be deceived, my dear brothers and sisters. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_17"><sup>17</sup>Every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of the heavenly lights, who does not change like shifting shadows. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_18"><sup>18</sup>He chose to give us birth through the word of truth, that we might be a kind of firstfruits of all he created. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Listening and Doing </h3></div>
<span class="verse gia_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>My dear brothers and sisters, take note of this: Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to become angry, </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_20"><sup>20</sup>because human anger does not produce the righteousness that God desires. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_21"><sup>21</sup>Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and the evil that is so prevalent and humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>Do not merely listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_23"><sup>23</sup>Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like someone who looks at his face in a mirror </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_24"><sup>24</sup>and, after looking at himself, goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_25"><sup>25</sup>But whoever looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom, and continues in it—not forgetting what they have heard, but doing it—they will be blessed in what they do. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_1_26"> <sup>26</sup>Those who consider themselves religious and yet do not keep a tight rein on their tongues deceive themselves, and their religion is worthless. </span>
<span class="verse gia_1_27"><sup>27</sup>Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is this: to look after orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. <br/></span>
