---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: James 
bookNumber: 59
audio: \Audio\NIV\gia\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Favoritism Forbidden </h3></div>
<span class="verse gia_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>My brothers and sisters, believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ must not show favoritism. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_2"><sup>2</sup>Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring and fine clothes, and a poor man in filthy old clothes also comes in. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_3"><sup>3</sup>If you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes and say, “Here’s a good seat for you,” but say to the poor man, “You stand there” or “Sit on the floor by my feet,” </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_4"><sup>4</sup>have you not discriminated among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>Listen, my dear brothers and sisters: Has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom he promised those who love him? </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_6"><sup>6</sup>But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who are exploiting you? Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court? </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_7"><sup>7</sup>Are they not the ones who are blaspheming the noble name of him to whom you belong? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>If you really keep the royal law found in Scripture, “Love your neighbor as yourself,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 19:18">⚓</a> you are doing right. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_9"><sup>9</sup>But if you show favoritism, you sin and are convicted by the law as lawbreakers. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_10"><sup>10</sup>For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_11"><sup>11</sup>For he who said, “You shall not commit adultery,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 20:14; Deut. 5:18">⚓</a> also said, “You shall not murder.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 20:13; Deut. 5:17">⚓</a> If you do not commit adultery but do commit murder, you have become a lawbreaker. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_2_12"> <sup>12</sup>Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom, </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_13"><sup>13</sup>because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Faith and Deeds </h3></div>
<span class="verse gia_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>What good is it, my brothers and sisters, if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save them? </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_15"><sup>15</sup>Suppose a brother or a sister is without clothes and daily food. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_16"><sup>16</sup>If one of you says to them, “Go in peace; keep warm and well fed,” but does nothing about their physical needs, what good is it? </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_17"><sup>17</sup>In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_2_18"> <sup>18</sup>But someone will say, “You have faith; I have deeds.” <br/> Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by my deeds. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_19"><sup>19</sup>You believe that there is one God. Good! Even the demons believe that—and shudder. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>You foolish person, do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts dead">⚓</a> ? </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_21"><sup>21</sup>Was not our father Abraham considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar? </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_22"><sup>22</sup>You see that his faith and his actions were working together, and his faith was made complete by what he did. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_23"><sup>23</sup>And the scripture was fulfilled that says, “Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 15:6">⚓</a> and he was called God’s friend. </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_24"><sup>24</sup>You see that a person is considered righteous by what they do and not by faith alone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_2_25"> <sup>25</sup>In the same way, was not even Rahab the prostitute considered righteous for what she did when she gave lodging to the spies and sent them off in a different direction? </span>
<span class="verse gia_2_26"><sup>26</sup>As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead. <br/></span>
