---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: James 
bookNumber: 59
audio: \Audio\NIV\gia\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Taming the Tongue </h3></div>
<span class="verse gia_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Not many of you should become teachers, my fellow believers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_2"><sup>2</sup>We all stumble in many ways. Anyone who is never at fault in what they say is perfect, able to keep their whole body in check. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_3_3"> <sup>3</sup>When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Or take ships as an example. Although they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a very small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_5"><sup>5</sup>Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_6"><sup>6</sup>The tongue also is a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole body, sets the whole course of one’s life on fire, and is itself set on fire by hell. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>All kinds of animals, birds, reptiles and sea creatures are being tamed and have been tamed by mankind, </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_8"><sup>8</sup>but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_3_9"> <sup>9</sup>With the tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse human beings, who have been made in God’s likeness. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_10"><sup>10</sup>Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing. My brothers and sisters, this should not be. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_11"><sup>11</sup>Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring? </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_12"><sup>12</sup>My brothers and sisters, can a fig tree bear olives, or a grapevine bear figs? Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Two Kinds of Wisdom </h3></div>
<span class="verse gia_3_13"> <sup>13</sup>Who is wise and understanding among you? Let them show it by their good life, by deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_14"><sup>14</sup>But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_15"><sup>15</sup>Such “wisdom” does not come down from heaven but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_16"><sup>16</sup>For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gia_3_17"> <sup>17</sup>But the wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure; then peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere. </span>
<span class="verse gia_3_18"><sup>18</sup>Peacemakers who sow in peace reap a harvest of righteousness. <br/></span>
