---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jonah 
bookNumber: 32
audio: \Audio\NIV\gion\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Jonah Flees From the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse gion_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to Jonah son of Amittai: </span>
<span class="verse gion_1_2"><sup>2</sup>“Go to the great city of Nineveh and preach against it, because its wickedness has come up before me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>But Jonah ran away from the Lord and headed for Tarshish. He went down to Joppa, where he found a ship bound for that port. After paying the fare, he went aboard and sailed for Tarshish to flee from the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then the Lord sent a great wind on the sea, and such a violent storm arose that the ship threatened to break up. </span>
<span class="verse gion_1_5"><sup>5</sup>All the sailors were afraid and each cried out to his own god. And they threw the cargo into the sea to lighten the ship. <br/> But Jonah had gone below deck, where he lay down and fell into a deep sleep. </span>
<span class="verse gion_1_6"><sup>6</sup>The captain went to him and said, “How can you sleep? Get up and call on your god! Maybe he will take notice of us so that we will not perish.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then the sailors said to each other, “Come, let us cast lots to find out who is responsible for this calamity.” They cast lots and the lot fell on Jonah. </span>
<span class="verse gion_1_8"><sup>8</sup>So they asked him, “Tell us, who is responsible for making all this trouble for us? What kind of work do you do? Where do you come from? What is your country? From what people are you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>He answered, “I am a Hebrew and I worship the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>This terrified them and they asked, “What have you done?” (They knew he was running away from the Lord, because he had already told them so.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>The sea was getting rougher and rougher. So they asked him, “What should we do to you to make the sea calm down for us?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Pick me up and throw me into the sea,” he replied, “and it will become calm. I know that it is my fault that this great storm has come upon you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>Instead, the men did their best to row back to land. But they could not, for the sea grew even wilder than before. </span>
<span class="verse gion_1_14"><sup>14</sup>Then they cried out to the Lord, “Please, Lord, do not let us die for taking this man’s life. Do not hold us accountable for killing an innocent man, for you, Lord, have done as you pleased.” </span>
<span class="verse gion_1_15"><sup>15</sup>Then they took Jonah and threw him overboard, and the raging sea grew calm. </span>
<span class="verse gion_1_16"><sup>16</sup>At this the men greatly feared the Lord, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>Now the Lord provided a huge fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. <br/></span>
