---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jonah 
bookNumber: 32
audio: \Audio\NIV\gion\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Jonah’s Anger at the Lord’s Compassion </h3></div>
<span class="verse gion_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>But to Jonah this seemed very wrong, and he became angry. </span>
<span class="verse gion_4_2"><sup>2</sup>He prayed to the Lord, “Isn’t this what I said, Lord, when I was still at home? That is what I tried to forestall by fleeing to Tarshish. I knew that you are a gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger and abounding in love, a God who relents from sending calamity. </span>
<span class="verse gion_4_3"><sup>3</sup>Now, Lord, take away my life, for it is better for me to die than to live.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>But the Lord replied, “Is it right for you to be angry?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_4_5"> <sup>5</sup>Jonah had gone out and sat down at a place east of the city. There he made himself a shelter, sat in its shade and waited to see what would happen to the city. </span>
<span class="verse gion_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Then the Lord God provided a leafy plant<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The precise identification of this plant is uncertain; also in verses 7, 9 and 10.">⚓</a> and made it grow up over Jonah to give shade for his head to ease his discomfort, and Jonah was very happy about the plant. </span>
<span class="verse gion_4_7"><sup>7</sup>But at dawn the next day God provided a worm, which chewed the plant so that it withered. </span>
<span class="verse gion_4_8"><sup>8</sup>When the sun rose, God provided a scorching east wind, and the sun blazed on Jonah’s head so that he grew faint. He wanted to die, and said, “It would be better for me to die than to live.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>But God said to Jonah, “Is it right for you to be angry about the plant?” <br/> “It is,” he said. “And I’m so angry I wish I were dead.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gion_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>But the Lord said, “You have been concerned about this plant, though you did not tend it or make it grow. It sprang up overnight and died overnight. </span>
<span class="verse gion_4_11"><sup>11</sup>And should I not have concern for the great city of Nineveh, in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand people who cannot tell their right hand from their left—and also many animals?” <br/></span>
