---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Joel 
bookNumber: 29
audio: \Audio\NIV\gio\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>An Army of Locusts </h3></div>
<span class="verse gio_2_1">  <sup>1</sup>Blow the trumpet in Zion; <br/>   sound the alarm on my holy hill. <br/><br/>  Let all who live in the land tremble, <br/>   for the day of the Lord is coming. <br/>  It is close at hand— <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_2">   <sup>2</sup>a day of darkness and gloom, <br/>   a day of clouds and blackness. <br/>  Like dawn spreading across the mountains <br/>   a large and mighty army comes, <br/>  such as never was in ancient times <br/>   nor ever will be in ages to come. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_3">  <sup>3</sup>Before them fire devours, <br/>   behind them a flame blazes. <br/>  Before them the land is like the garden of Eden, <br/>   behind them, a desert waste— <br/>   nothing escapes them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_4">  <sup>4</sup>They have the appearance of horses; <br/>   they gallop along like cavalry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_5">  <sup>5</sup>With a noise like that of chariots <br/>   they leap over the mountaintops, <br/>  like a crackling fire consuming stubble, <br/>   like a mighty army drawn up for battle. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_6">  <sup>6</sup>At the sight of them, nations are in anguish; <br/>   every face turns pale. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_7">  <sup>7</sup>They charge like warriors; <br/>   they scale walls like soldiers. <br/>  They all march in line, <br/>   not swerving from their course. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_8">  <sup>8</sup>They do not jostle each other; <br/>   each marches straight ahead. <br/>  They plunge through defenses <br/>   without breaking ranks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_9">  <sup>9</sup>They rush upon the city; <br/>   they run along the wall. <br/>  They climb into the houses; <br/>   like thieves they enter through the windows. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_10">  <sup>10</sup>Before them the earth shakes, <br/>   the heavens tremble, <br/>  the sun and moon are darkened, <br/>   and the stars no longer shine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_11">  <sup>11</sup>The Lord thunders <br/>   at the head of his army; <br/>  his forces are beyond number, <br/>   and mighty is the army that obeys his command. <br/>  The day of the Lord is great; <br/>   it is dreadful. <br/>   Who can endure it? <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Rend Your Heart </h3></div>
<span class="verse gio_2_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Even now,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “return to me with all your heart, <br/>   with fasting and weeping and mourning.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_13">  <sup>13</sup>Rend your heart <br/>   and not your garments. <br/>  Return to the Lord your God, <br/>   for he is gracious and compassionate, <br/>  slow to anger and abounding in love, <br/>   and he relents from sending calamity. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_14">  <sup>14</sup>Who knows? He may turn and relent <br/>   and leave behind a blessing— <br/>  grain offerings and drink offerings <br/>   for the Lord your God. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_15">  <sup>15</sup>Blow the trumpet in Zion, <br/>   declare a holy fast, <br/>   call a sacred assembly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_16">  <sup>16</sup>Gather the people, <br/>   consecrate the assembly; <br/>  bring together the elders, <br/>   gather the children, <br/>   those nursing at the breast. <br/>  Let the bridegroom leave his room <br/>   and the bride her chamber. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_17">  <sup>17</sup>Let the priests, who minister before the Lord, <br/>   weep between the portico and the altar. <br/>  Let them say, “Spare your people, Lord. <br/>   Do not make your inheritance an object of scorn, <br/>   a byword among the nations. <br/>  Why should they say among the peoples, <br/>   ‘Where is their God?’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Lord’s Answer </h3></div>
<span class="verse gio_2_18">  <sup>18</sup>Then the Lord was jealous for his land <br/>   and took pity on his people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>The Lord replied<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Lordwill be jealous … / and take pity … / 19The Lordwill reply">⚓</a> to them: <br/>  “I am sending you grain, new wine and olive oil, <br/>   enough to satisfy you fully; <br/>  never again will I make you <br/>   an object of scorn to the nations. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_20">  <sup>20</sup>“I will drive the northern horde far from you, <br/>   pushing it into a parched and barren land; <br/>  its eastern ranks will drown in the Dead Sea <br/>   and its western ranks in the Mediterranean Sea. <br/>  And its stench will go up; <br/>   its smell will rise.” <br/><br/>  Surely he has done great things! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_21">   <sup>21</sup>Do not be afraid, land of Judah; <br/>   be glad and rejoice. <br/>  Surely the Lord has done great things! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_22">   <sup>22</sup>Do not be afraid, you wild animals, <br/>   for the pastures in the wilderness are becoming green. <br/>  The trees are bearing their fruit; <br/>   the fig tree and the vine yield their riches. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_23">  <sup>23</sup>Be glad, people of Zion, <br/>   rejoice in the Lord your God, <br/>  for he has given you the autumn rains <br/>   because he is faithful. <br/>  He sends you abundant showers, <br/>   both autumn and spring rains, as before. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_24">  <sup>24</sup>The threshing floors will be filled with grain; <br/>   the vats will overflow with new wine and oil. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_25">  <sup>25</sup>“I will repay you for the years the locusts have eaten— <br/>   the great locust and the young locust, <br/>   the other locusts and the locust swarm<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The precise meaning of the four Hebrew words used here for locusts is uncertain.">⚓</a> — <br/>  my great army that I sent among you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_26">  <sup>26</sup>You will have plenty to eat, until you are full, <br/>   and you will praise the name of the Lord your God, <br/>   who has worked wonders for you; <br/>  never again will my people be shamed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_27">  <sup>27</sup>Then you will know that I am in Israel, <br/>   that I am the Lord your God, <br/>   and that there is no other; <br/>  never again will my people be shamed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Day of the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse gio_2_28">  <sup>28</sup>“And afterward, <br/>   I will pour out my Spirit on all people. <br/>  Your sons and daughters will prophesy, <br/>   your old men will dream dreams, <br/>   your young men will see visions. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_29">  <sup>29</sup>Even on my servants, both men and women, <br/>   I will pour out my Spirit in those days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_30">  <sup>30</sup>I will show wonders in the heavens <br/>   and on the earth, <br/>   blood and fire and billows of smoke. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_31">  <sup>31</sup>The sun will be turned to darkness <br/>   and the moon to blood <br/>   before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_2_32">  <sup>32</sup>And everyone who calls <br/>   on the name of the Lord will be saved; <br/>  for on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem <br/>   there will be deliverance, <br/>   as the Lord has said, <br/>  even among the survivors <br/>   whom the Lord calls.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts 2:28-32 is numbered 3:1-5.">⚓</a><br/></span>
