---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Joel 
bookNumber: 29
audio: \Audio\NIV\gio\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>The Nations Judged </h3></div>
<span class="verse gio_3_1">  <sup>1</sup>“In those days and at that time, <br/>   when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_2">  <sup>2</sup>I will gather all nations <br/>   and bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means the Lordjudges ; also in verse 12.">⚓</a><br/>  There I will put them on trial <br/>   for what they did to my inheritance, my people Israel, <br/>  because they scattered my people among the nations <br/>   and divided up my land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_3">  <sup>3</sup>They cast lots for my people <br/>   and traded boys for prostitutes; <br/>   they sold girls for wine to drink. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_4"> <sup>4</sup>“Now what have you against me, Tyre and Sidon and all you regions of Philistia? Are you repaying me for something I have done? If you are paying me back, I will swiftly and speedily return on your own heads what you have done. </span>
<span class="verse gio_3_5"><sup>5</sup>For you took my silver and my gold and carried off my finest treasures to your temples.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or palaces">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_6"><sup>6</sup>You sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks, that you might send them far from their homeland. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>“See, I am going to rouse them out of the places to which you sold them, and I will return on your own heads what you have done. </span>
<span class="verse gio_3_8"><sup>8</sup>I will sell your sons and daughters to the people of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, a nation far away.” The Lord has spoken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_9">  <sup>9</sup>Proclaim this among the nations: <br/>   Prepare for war! <br/>  Rouse the warriors! <br/>   Let all the fighting men draw near and attack. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_10">  <sup>10</sup>Beat your plowshares into swords <br/>   and your pruning hooks into spears. <br/>  Let the weakling say, <br/>   “I am strong!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_11">  <sup>11</sup>Come quickly, all you nations from every side, <br/>   and assemble there. <br/><br/>  Bring down your warriors, Lord! <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Let the nations be roused; <br/>   let them advance into the Valley of Jehoshaphat, <br/>  for there I will sit <br/>   to judge all the nations on every side. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_13">  <sup>13</sup>Swing the sickle, <br/>   for the harvest is ripe. <br/>  Come, trample the grapes, <br/>   for the winepress is full <br/>   and the vats overflow— <br/>  so great is their wickedness!” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_14">  <sup>14</sup>Multitudes, multitudes <br/>   in the valley of decision! <br/>  For the day of the Lord is near <br/>   in the valley of decision. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_15">  <sup>15</sup>The sun and moon will be darkened, <br/>   and the stars no longer shine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_16">  <sup>16</sup>The Lord will roar from Zion <br/>   and thunder from Jerusalem; <br/>   the earth and the heavens will tremble. <br/>  But the Lord will be a refuge for his people, <br/>   a stronghold for the people of Israel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Blessings for God’s People </h3></div>
<span class="verse gio_3_17">  <sup>17</sup>“Then you will know that I, the Lord your God, <br/>   dwell in Zion, my holy hill. <br/>  Jerusalem will be holy; <br/>   never again will foreigners invade her. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_18">  <sup>18</sup>“In that day the mountains will drip new wine, <br/>   and the hills will flow with milk; <br/>   all the ravines of Judah will run with water. <br/>  A fountain will flow out of the Lord’s house <br/>   and will water the valley of acacias.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Valley of Shittim">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_19">  <sup>19</sup>But Egypt will be desolate, <br/>   Edom a desert waste, <br/>  because of violence done to the people of Judah, <br/>   in whose land they shed innocent blood. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_20">  <sup>20</sup>Judah will be inhabited forever <br/>   and Jerusalem through all generations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gio_3_21">  <sup>21</sup>Shall I leave their innocent blood unavenged? <br/>   No, I will not.” <br/><br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">The Lord dwells in Zion! </aside><br/></span>
