---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Zephaniah 
bookNumber: 36
audio: \Audio\NIV\so\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><p>Judah Summoned to Repent </p><h3>Judah and Jerusalem Judged Along With the Nations </h3></div>
<span class="verse so_2_1">  <sup>1</sup>Gather together, gather yourselves together, <br/>   you shameful nation, <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_2">  <sup>2</sup>before the decree takes effect <br/>   and that day passes like windblown chaff, <br/>  before the Lord’s fierce anger <br/>   comes upon you, <br/>  before the day of the Lord’s wrath <br/>   comes upon you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_3">  <sup>3</sup>Seek the Lord, all you humble of the land, <br/>   you who do what he commands. <br/>  Seek righteousness, seek humility; <br/>   perhaps you will be sheltered <br/>   on the day of the Lord’s anger. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>Philistia </p></div>
<span class="verse so_2_4">  <sup>4</sup>Gaza will be abandoned <br/>   and Ashkelon left in ruins. <br/>  At midday Ashdod will be emptied <br/>   and Ekron uprooted. <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_5">  <sup>5</sup>Woe to you who live by the sea, <br/>   you Kerethite people; <br/>  the word of the Lord is against you, <br/>   Canaan, land of the Philistines. <br/>  He says, “I will destroy you, <br/>   and none will be left.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_6">  <sup>6</sup>The land by the sea will become pastures <br/>   having wells for shepherds <br/>   and pens for flocks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_7">  <sup>7</sup>That land will belong <br/>   to the remnant of the people of Judah; <br/>   there they will find pasture. <br/>  In the evening they will lie down <br/>   in the houses of Ashkelon. <br/>  The Lord their God will care for them; <br/>   he will restore their fortunes.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or will bring back their captives">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>Moab and Ammon </p></div>
<span class="verse so_2_8">  <sup>8</sup>“I have heard the insults of Moab <br/>   and the taunts of the Ammonites, <br/>  who insulted my people <br/>   and made threats against their land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_9">  <sup>9</sup>Therefore, as surely as I live,” <br/>   declares the Lord Almighty, <br/>   the God of Israel, <br/>  “surely Moab will become like Sodom, <br/>   the Ammonites like Gomorrah— <br/>  a place of weeds and salt pits, <br/>   a wasteland forever. <br/>  The remnant of my people will plunder them; <br/>   the survivors of my nation will inherit their land.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_10">  <sup>10</sup>This is what they will get in return for their pride, <br/>   for insulting and mocking <br/>   the people of the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_11">  <sup>11</sup>The Lord will be awesome to them <br/>   when he destroys all the gods of the earth. <br/>  Distant nations will bow down to him, <br/>   all of them in their own lands. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>Cush </p></div>
<span class="verse so_2_12">  <sup>12</sup>“You Cushites,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, people from the upper Nile region">⚓</a> too, <br/>   will be slain by my sword.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>Assyria </p></div>
<span class="verse so_2_13">  <sup>13</sup>He will stretch out his hand against the north <br/>   and destroy Assyria, <br/>  leaving Nineveh utterly desolate <br/>   and dry as the desert. <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_14">  <sup>14</sup>Flocks and herds will lie down there, <br/>   creatures of every kind. <br/>  The desert owl and the screech owl <br/>   will roost on her columns. <br/>  Their hooting will echo through the windows, <br/>   rubble will fill the doorways, <br/>   the beams of cedar will be exposed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse so_2_15">  <sup>15</sup>This is the city of revelry <br/>   that lived in safety. <br/>  She said to herself, <br/>   “I am the one! And there is none besides me.” <br/>  What a ruin she has become, <br/>   a lair for wild beasts! <br/>  All who pass by her scoff <br/>   and shake their fists. <br/></span>
