---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The words of Jeremiah son of Hilkiah, one of the priests at Anathoth in the territory of Benjamin. </span>
<span class="verse gie_1_2"><sup>2</sup>The word of the Lord came to him in the thirteenth year of the reign of Josiah son of Amon king of Judah, </span>
<span class="verse gie_1_3"><sup>3</sup>and through the reign of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, down to the fifth month of the eleventh year of Zedekiah son of Josiah king of Judah, when the people of Jerusalem went into exile. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Call of Jeremiah </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>The word of the Lord came to me, saying, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_5">  <sup>5</sup>“Before I formed you in the womb I knew<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or chose">⚓</a> you, <br/>   before you were born I set you apart; <br/>   I appointed you as a prophet to the nations.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Alas, Sovereign Lord,” I said, “I do not know how to speak; I am too young.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_7"> <sup>7</sup>But the Lord said to me, “Do not say, ‘I am too young.’ You must go to everyone I send you to and say whatever I command you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_1_8"><sup>8</sup>Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you and will rescue you,” declares the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then the Lord reached out his hand and touched my mouth and said to me, “I have put my words in your mouth. </span>
<span class="verse gie_1_10"><sup>10</sup>See, today I appoint you over nations and kingdoms to uproot and tear down, to destroy and overthrow, to build and to plant.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: “What do you see, Jeremiah?” <br/> “I see the branch of an almond tree,” I replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>The Lord said to me, “You have seen correctly, for I am watching<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for watching sounds like the Hebrew for almond tree.">⚓</a> to see that my word is fulfilled.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>The word of the Lord came to me again: “What do you see?” <br/> “I see a pot that is boiling,” I answered. “It is tilting toward us from the north.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Lord said to me, “From the north disaster will be poured out on all who live in the land. </span>
<span class="verse gie_1_15"><sup>15</sup>I am about to summon all the peoples of the northern kingdoms,” declares the Lord. <br/>  “Their kings will come and set up their thrones <br/>   in the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem; <br/>  they will come against all her surrounding walls <br/>   and against all the towns of Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_16">  <sup>16</sup>I will pronounce my judgments on my people <br/>   because of their wickedness in forsaking me, <br/>  in burning incense to other gods <br/>   and in worshiping what their hands have made. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Get yourself ready! Stand up and say to them whatever I command you. Do not be terrified by them, or I will terrify you before them. </span>
<span class="verse gie_1_18"><sup>18</sup>Today I have made you a fortified city, an iron pillar and a bronze wall to stand against the whole land—against the kings of Judah, its officials, its priests and the people of the land. </span>
<span class="verse gie_1_19"><sup>19</sup>They will fight against you but will not overcome you, for I am with you and will rescue you,” declares the Lord. <br/></span>
