---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Israel Forsakes God </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse gie_2_2"><sup>2</sup>“Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem: <br/> “This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘I remember the devotion of your youth, <br/>   how as a bride you loved me <br/>  and followed me through the wilderness, <br/>   through a land not sown. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_3">  <sup>3</sup>Israel was holy to the Lord, <br/>   the firstfruits of his harvest; <br/>  all who devoured her were held guilty, <br/>   and disaster overtook them,’ ” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_4">  <sup>4</sup>Hear the word of the Lord, you descendants of Jacob, <br/>   all you clans of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “What fault did your ancestors find in me, <br/>   that they strayed so far from me? <br/>  They followed worthless idols <br/>   and became worthless themselves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_6">  <sup>6</sup>They did not ask, ‘Where is the Lord, <br/>   who brought us up out of Egypt <br/>  and led us through the barren wilderness, <br/>   through a land of deserts and ravines, <br/>  a land of drought and utter darkness, <br/>   a land where no one travels and no one lives?’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_7">  <sup>7</sup>I brought you into a fertile land <br/>   to eat its fruit and rich produce. <br/>  But you came and defiled my land <br/>   and made my inheritance detestable. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_8">  <sup>8</sup>The priests did not ask, <br/>   ‘Where is the Lord?’ <br/>  Those who deal with the law did not know me; <br/>   the leaders rebelled against me. <br/>  The prophets prophesied by Baal, <br/>   following worthless idols. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_9">  <sup>9</sup>“Therefore I bring charges against you again,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>   “And I will bring charges against your children’s children. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_10">  <sup>10</sup>Cross over to the coasts of Cyprus and look, <br/>   send to Kedar <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In the Syro-Arabian desert">⚓</a> and observe closely; <br/>   see if there has ever been anything like this: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_11">  <sup>11</sup>Has a nation ever changed its gods? <br/>   (Yet they are not gods at all.) <br/>  But my people have exchanged their glorious God <br/>   for worthless idols. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_12">  <sup>12</sup>Be appalled at this, you heavens, <br/>   and shudder with great horror,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_13">  <sup>13</sup>“My people have committed two sins: <br/>  They have forsaken me, <br/>   the spring of living water, <br/>  and have dug their own cisterns, <br/>   broken cisterns that cannot hold water. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_14">  <sup>14</sup>Is Israel a servant, a slave by birth? <br/>   Why then has he become plunder? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_15">  <sup>15</sup>Lions have roared; <br/>   they have growled at him. <br/>  They have laid waste his land; <br/>   his towns are burned and deserted. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_16">  <sup>16</sup>Also, the men of Memphis and Tahpanhes <br/>   have cracked your skull. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_17">  <sup>17</sup>Have you not brought this on yourselves <br/>   by forsaking the Lord your God <br/>   when he led you in the way? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_18">  <sup>18</sup>Now why go to Egypt <br/>   to drink water from the Nile <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Shihor; that is, a branch of the Nile">⚓</a> ? <br/>  And why go to Assyria <br/>   to drink water from the Euphrates? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_19">  <sup>19</sup>Your wickedness will punish you; <br/>   your backsliding will rebuke you. <br/>  Consider then and realize <br/>   how evil and bitter it is for you <br/>  when you forsake the Lord your God <br/>   and have no awe of me,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord, the Lord Almighty. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_20">  <sup>20</sup>“Long ago you broke off your yoke <br/>   and tore off your bonds; <br/>   you said, ‘I will not serve you!’ <br/>  Indeed, on every high hill <br/>   and under every spreading tree <br/>   you lay down as a prostitute. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_21">  <sup>21</sup>I had planted you like a choice vine <br/>   of sound and reliable stock. <br/>  How then did you turn against me <br/>   into a corrupt, wild vine? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_22">  <sup>22</sup>Although you wash yourself with soap <br/>   and use an abundance of cleansing powder, <br/>   the stain of your guilt is still before me,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Sovereign Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_23">  <sup>23</sup>“How can you say, ‘I am not defiled; <br/>   I have not run after the Baals’? <br/>  See how you behaved in the valley; <br/>   consider what you have done. <br/>  You are a swift she-camel <br/>   running here and there, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_24">  <sup>24</sup>a wild donkey accustomed to the desert, <br/>   sniffing the wind in her craving— <br/>   in her heat who can restrain her? <br/>  Any males that pursue her need not tire themselves; <br/>   at mating time they will find her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_25">  <sup>25</sup>Do not run until your feet are bare <br/>   and your throat is dry. <br/>  But you said, ‘It’s no use! <br/>   I love foreign gods, <br/>   and I must go after them.’ <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_26">  <sup>26</sup>“As a thief is disgraced when he is caught, <br/>   so the people of Israel are disgraced— <br/>  they, their kings and their officials, <br/>   their priests and their prophets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_27">  <sup>27</sup>They say to wood, ‘You are my father,’ <br/>   and to stone, ‘You gave me birth.’ <br/>  They have turned their backs to me <br/>   and not their faces; <br/>  yet when they are in trouble, they say, <br/>   ‘Come and save us!’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_28">  <sup>28</sup>Where then are the gods you made for yourselves? <br/>   Let them come if they can save you <br/>   when you are in trouble! <br/>  For you, Judah, have as many gods <br/>   as you have towns. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_29">  <sup>29</sup>“Why do you bring charges against me? <br/>   You have all rebelled against me,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_30">  <sup>30</sup>“In vain I punished your people; <br/>   they did not respond to correction. <br/>  Your sword has devoured your prophets <br/>   like a ravenous lion. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_31"> <sup>31</sup>“You of this generation, consider the word of the Lord: <br/>  “Have I been a desert to Israel <br/>   or a land of great darkness? <br/>  Why do my people say, ‘We are free to roam; <br/>   we will come to you no more’? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_32">  <sup>32</sup>Does a young woman forget her jewelry, <br/>   a bride her wedding ornaments? <br/>  Yet my people have forgotten me, <br/>   days without number. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_33">  <sup>33</sup>How skilled you are at pursuing love! <br/>   Even the worst of women can learn from your ways. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_34">  <sup>34</sup>On your clothes is found <br/>   the lifeblood of the innocent poor, <br/>   though you did not catch them breaking in. <br/>  Yet in spite of all this <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_35">   <sup>35</sup>you say, ‘I am innocent; <br/>   he is not angry with me.’ <br/>  But I will pass judgment on you <br/>   because you say, ‘I have not sinned.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_36">  <sup>36</sup>Why do you go about so much, <br/>   changing your ways? <br/>  You will be disappointed by Egypt <br/>   as you were by Assyria. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_2_37">  <sup>37</sup>You will also leave that place <br/>   with your hands on your head, <br/>  for the Lord has rejected those you trust; <br/>   you will not be helped by them. <br/><br/></span>
