---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_4_1">  <sup>1</sup>“If you, Israel, will return, <br/>   then return to me,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>  “If you put your detestable idols out of my sight <br/>   and no longer go astray, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_2">  <sup>2</sup>and if in a truthful, just and righteous way <br/>   you swear, ‘As surely as the Lord lives,’ <br/>  then the nations will invoke blessings by him <br/>   and in him they will boast.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_3"> <sup>3</sup>This is what the Lord says to the people of Judah and to Jerusalem: <br/>  “Break up your unplowed ground <br/>   and do not sow among thorns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_4">  <sup>4</sup>Circumcise yourselves to the Lord, <br/>   circumcise your hearts, <br/>   you people of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, <br/>  or my wrath will flare up and burn like fire <br/>   because of the evil you have done— <br/>   burn with no one to quench it. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Disaster From the North </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_4_5">  <sup>5</sup>“Announce in Judah and proclaim in Jerusalem and say: <br/>   ‘Sound the trumpet throughout the land!’ <br/>  Cry aloud and say: <br/>   ‘Gather together! <br/>   Let us flee to the fortified cities!’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_6">  <sup>6</sup>Raise the signal to go to Zion! <br/>   Flee for safety without delay! <br/>  For I am bringing disaster from the north, <br/>   even terrible destruction.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_7">  <sup>7</sup>A lion has come out of his lair; <br/>   a destroyer of nations has set out. <br/>  He has left his place <br/>   to lay waste your land. <br/>  Your towns will lie in ruins <br/>   without inhabitant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_8">  <sup>8</sup>So put on sackcloth, <br/>   lament and wail, <br/>  for the fierce anger of the Lord<br/>   has not turned away from us. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_9">  <sup>9</sup>“In that day,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “the king and the officials will lose heart, <br/>  the priests will be horrified, <br/>   and the prophets will be appalled.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then I said, “Alas, Sovereign Lord! How completely you have deceived this people and Jerusalem by saying, ‘You will have peace,’ when the sword is at our throats!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>At that time this people and Jerusalem will be told, “A scorching wind from the barren heights in the desert blows toward my people, but not to winnow or cleanse; </span>
<span class="verse gie_4_12"><sup>12</sup>a wind too strong for that comes from me. Now I pronounce my judgments against them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_13">  <sup>13</sup>Look! He advances like the clouds, <br/>   his chariots come like a whirlwind, <br/>  his horses are swifter than eagles. <br/>   Woe to us! We are ruined! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_14">  <sup>14</sup>Jerusalem, wash the evil from your heart and be saved. <br/>   How long will you harbor wicked thoughts? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_15">  <sup>15</sup>A voice is announcing from Dan, <br/>   proclaiming disaster from the hills of Ephraim. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_16">  <sup>16</sup>“Tell this to the nations, <br/>   proclaim concerning Jerusalem: <br/>  ‘A besieging army is coming from a distant land, <br/>   raising a war cry against the cities of Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_17">  <sup>17</sup>They surround her like men guarding a field, <br/>   because she has rebelled against me,’ ” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_18">  <sup>18</sup>“Your own conduct and actions <br/>   have brought this on you. <br/>  This is your punishment. <br/>   How bitter it is! <br/>   How it pierces to the heart!” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_19">  <sup>19</sup>Oh, my anguish, my anguish! <br/>   I writhe in pain. <br/>  Oh, the agony of my heart! <br/>   My heart pounds within me, <br/>   I cannot keep silent. <br/>  For I have heard the sound of the trumpet; <br/>   I have heard the battle cry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_20">  <sup>20</sup>Disaster follows disaster; <br/>   the whole land lies in ruins. <br/>  In an instant my tents are destroyed, <br/>   my shelter in a moment. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_21">  <sup>21</sup>How long must I see the battle standard <br/>   and hear the sound of the trumpet? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_22">  <sup>22</sup>“My people are fools; <br/>   they do not know me. <br/>  They are senseless children; <br/>   they have no understanding. <br/>  They are skilled in doing evil; <br/>   they know not how to do good.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_23">  <sup>23</sup>I looked at the earth, <br/>   and it was formless and empty; <br/>  and at the heavens, <br/>   and their light was gone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_24">  <sup>24</sup>I looked at the mountains, <br/>   and they were quaking; <br/>   all the hills were swaying. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_25">  <sup>25</sup>I looked, and there were no people; <br/>   every bird in the sky had flown away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_26">  <sup>26</sup>I looked, and the fruitful land was a desert; <br/>   all its towns lay in ruins <br/>   before the Lord, before his fierce anger. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_27"> <sup>27</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “The whole land will be ruined, <br/>   though I will not destroy it completely. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_28">  <sup>28</sup>Therefore the earth will mourn <br/>   and the heavens above grow dark, <br/>  because I have spoken and will not relent, <br/>   I have decided and will not turn back.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_29">  <sup>29</sup>At the sound of horsemen and archers <br/>   every town takes to flight. <br/>  Some go into the thickets; <br/>   some climb up among the rocks. <br/>  All the towns are deserted; <br/>   no one lives in them. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_30">  <sup>30</sup>What are you doing, you devastated one? <br/>   Why dress yourself in scarlet <br/>   and put on jewels of gold? <br/>  Why highlight your eyes with makeup? <br/>   You adorn yourself in vain. <br/>  Your lovers despise you; <br/>   they want to kill you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_4_31">  <sup>31</sup>I hear a cry as of a woman in labor, <br/>   a groan as of one bearing her first child— <br/>  the cry of Daughter Zion gasping for breath, <br/>   stretching out her hands and saying, <br/>  “Alas! I am fainting; <br/>   my life is given over to murderers.” <br/></span>
