---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Not One Is Upright </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_5_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Go up and down the streets of Jerusalem, <br/>   look around and consider, <br/>   search through her squares. <br/>  If you can find but one person <br/>   who deals honestly and seeks the truth, <br/>   I will forgive this city. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_2">  <sup>2</sup>Although they say, ‘As surely as the Lord lives,’ <br/>   still they are swearing falsely.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_3">  <sup>3</sup>Lord, do not your eyes look for truth? <br/>   You struck them, but they felt no pain; <br/>   you crushed them, but they refused correction. <br/>  They made their faces harder than stone <br/>   and refused to repent. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_4">  <sup>4</sup>I thought, “These are only the poor; <br/>   they are foolish, <br/>  for they do not know the way of the Lord, <br/>   the requirements of their God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_5">  <sup>5</sup>So I will go to the leaders <br/>   and speak to them; <br/>  surely they know the way of the Lord, <br/>   the requirements of their God.” <br/>  But with one accord they too had broken off the yoke <br/>   and torn off the bonds. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_6">  <sup>6</sup>Therefore a lion from the forest will attack them, <br/>   a wolf from the desert will ravage them, <br/>  a leopard will lie in wait near their towns <br/>   to tear to pieces any who venture out, <br/>  for their rebellion is great <br/>   and their backslidings many. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_7">  <sup>7</sup>“Why should I forgive you? <br/>   Your children have forsaken me <br/>   and sworn by gods that are not gods. <br/>  I supplied all their needs, <br/>   yet they committed adultery <br/>   and thronged to the houses of prostitutes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_8">  <sup>8</sup>They are well-fed, lusty stallions, <br/>   each neighing for another man’s wife. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_9">  <sup>9</sup>Should I not punish them for this?” <br/>   declares the Lord. <br/>  “Should I not avenge myself <br/>   on such a nation as this? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_10">  <sup>10</sup>“Go through her vineyards and ravage them, <br/>   but do not destroy them completely. <br/>  Strip off her branches, <br/>   for these people do not belong to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_11">  <sup>11</sup>The people of Israel and the people of Judah <br/>   have been utterly unfaithful to me,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_12">  <sup>12</sup>They have lied about the Lord; <br/>   they said, “He will do nothing! <br/>  No harm will come to us; <br/>   we will never see sword or famine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_13">  <sup>13</sup>The prophets are but wind <br/>   and the word is not in them; <br/>   so let what they say be done to them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_14"> <sup>14</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord God Almighty says: <br/>  “Because the people have spoken these words, <br/>   I will make my words in your mouth a fire <br/>   and these people the wood it consumes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_15">  <sup>15</sup>People of Israel,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “I am bringing a distant nation against you— <br/>  an ancient and enduring nation, <br/>   a people whose language you do not know, <br/>   whose speech you do not understand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_16">  <sup>16</sup>Their quivers are like an open grave; <br/>   all of them are mighty warriors. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_17">  <sup>17</sup>They will devour your harvests and food, <br/>   devour your sons and daughters; <br/>  they will devour your flocks and herds, <br/>   devour your vines and fig trees. <br/>  With the sword they will destroy <br/>   the fortified cities in which you trust. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Yet even in those days,” declares the Lord, “I will not destroy you completely. </span>
<span class="verse gie_5_19"><sup>19</sup>And when the people ask, ‘Why has the Lord our God done all this to us?’ you will tell them, ‘As you have forsaken me and served foreign gods in your own land, so now you will serve foreigners in a land not your own.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_20">  <sup>20</sup>“Announce this to the descendants of Jacob <br/>   and proclaim it in Judah: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_21">  <sup>21</sup>Hear this, you foolish and senseless people, <br/>   who have eyes but do not see, <br/>   who have ears but do not hear: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_22">  <sup>22</sup>Should you not fear me?” declares the Lord. <br/>   “Should you not tremble in my presence? <br/>  I made the sand a boundary for the sea, <br/>   an everlasting barrier it cannot cross. <br/>  The waves may roll, but they cannot prevail; <br/>   they may roar, but they cannot cross it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_23">  <sup>23</sup>But these people have stubborn and rebellious hearts; <br/>   they have turned aside and gone away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_24">  <sup>24</sup>They do not say to themselves, <br/>   ‘Let us fear the Lord our God, <br/>  who gives autumn and spring rains in season, <br/>   who assures us of the regular weeks of harvest.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_25">  <sup>25</sup>Your wrongdoings have kept these away; <br/>   your sins have deprived you of good. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_26">  <sup>26</sup>“Among my people are the wicked <br/>   who lie in wait like men who snare birds <br/>   and like those who set traps to catch people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_27">  <sup>27</sup>Like cages full of birds, <br/>   their houses are full of deceit; <br/>  they have become rich and powerful <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_28">   <sup>28</sup>and have grown fat and sleek. <br/>  Their evil deeds have no limit; <br/>   they do not seek justice. <br/>  They do not promote the case of the fatherless; <br/>   they do not defend the just cause of the poor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_29">  <sup>29</sup>Should I not punish them for this?” <br/>   declares the Lord. <br/>  “Should I not avenge myself <br/>   on such a nation as this? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_30">  <sup>30</sup>“A horrible and shocking thing <br/>   has happened in the land: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_5_31">  <sup>31</sup>The prophets prophesy lies, <br/>   the priests rule by their own authority, <br/>  and my people love it this way. <br/>   But what will you do in the end? <br/></span>
