---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Jerusalem Under Siege </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_6_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Flee for safety, people of Benjamin! <br/>   Flee from Jerusalem! <br/>  Sound the trumpet in Tekoa! <br/>   Raise the signal over Beth Hakkerem! <br/>  For disaster looms out of the north, <br/>   even terrible destruction. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_2">  <sup>2</sup>I will destroy Daughter Zion, <br/>   so beautiful and delicate. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_3">  <sup>3</sup>Shepherds with their flocks will come against her; <br/>   they will pitch their tents around her, <br/>   each tending his own portion.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_4">  <sup>4</sup>“Prepare for battle against her! <br/>   Arise, let us attack at noon! <br/>  But, alas, the daylight is fading, <br/>   and the shadows of evening grow long. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_5">  <sup>5</sup>So arise, let us attack at night <br/>   and destroy her fortresses!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: <br/>  “Cut down the trees <br/>   and build siege ramps against Jerusalem. <br/>  This city must be punished; <br/>   it is filled with oppression. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_7">  <sup>7</sup>As a well pours out its water, <br/>   so she pours out her wickedness. <br/>  Violence and destruction resound in her; <br/>   her sickness and wounds are ever before me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_8">  <sup>8</sup>Take warning, Jerusalem, <br/>   or I will turn away from you <br/>  and make your land desolate <br/>   so no one can live in it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: <br/>  “Let them glean the remnant of Israel <br/>   as thoroughly as a vine; <br/>  pass your hand over the branches again, <br/>   like one gathering grapes.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_10">  <sup>10</sup>To whom can I speak and give warning? <br/>   Who will listen to me? <br/>  Their ears are closed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew uncircumcised">⚓</a><br/>   so they cannot hear. <br/>  The word of the Lord is offensive to them; <br/>   they find no pleasure in it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_11">  <sup>11</sup>But I am full of the wrath of the Lord, <br/>   and I cannot hold it in. <br/><br/>  “Pour it out on the children in the street <br/>   and on the young men gathered together; <br/>  both husband and wife will be caught in it, <br/>   and the old, those weighed down with years. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_12">  <sup>12</sup>Their houses will be turned over to others, <br/>   together with their fields and their wives, <br/>  when I stretch out my hand <br/>   against those who live in the land,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_13">  <sup>13</sup>“From the least to the greatest, <br/>   all are greedy for gain; <br/>  prophets and priests alike, <br/>   all practice deceit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_14">  <sup>14</sup>They dress the wound of my people <br/>   as though it were not serious. <br/>  ‘Peace, peace,’ they say, <br/>   when there is no peace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_15">  <sup>15</sup>Are they ashamed of their detestable conduct? <br/>   No, they have no shame at all; <br/>   they do not even know how to blush. <br/>  So they will fall among the fallen; <br/>   they will be brought down when I punish them,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">says the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Stand at the crossroads and look; <br/>   ask for the ancient paths, <br/>  ask where the good way is, and walk in it, <br/>   and you will find rest for your souls. <br/>   But you said, ‘We will not walk in it.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_17">  <sup>17</sup>I appointed watchmen over you and said, <br/>   ‘Listen to the sound of the trumpet!’ <br/>   But you said, ‘We will not listen.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_18">  <sup>18</sup>Therefore hear, you nations; <br/>   you who are witnesses, <br/>   observe what will happen to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_19">  <sup>19</sup>Hear, you earth: <br/>   I am bringing disaster on this people, <br/>   the fruit of their schemes, <br/>  because they have not listened to my words <br/>   and have rejected my law. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_20">  <sup>20</sup>What do I care about incense from Sheba <br/>   or sweet calamus from a distant land? <br/>  Your burnt offerings are not acceptable; <br/>   your sacrifices do not please me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_21"> <sup>21</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord says: <br/>  “I will put obstacles before this people. <br/>   Parents and children alike will stumble over them; <br/>   neighbors and friends will perish.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_22"> <sup>22</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Look, an army is coming <br/>   from the land of the north; <br/>  a great nation is being stirred up <br/>   from the ends of the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_23">  <sup>23</sup>They are armed with bow and spear; <br/>   they are cruel and show no mercy. <br/>  They sound like the roaring sea <br/>   as they ride on their horses; <br/>  they come like men in battle formation <br/>   to attack you, Daughter Zion.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_24">  <sup>24</sup>We have heard reports about them, <br/>   and our hands hang limp. <br/>  Anguish has gripped us, <br/>   pain like that of a woman in labor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_25">  <sup>25</sup>Do not go out to the fields <br/>   or walk on the roads, <br/>  for the enemy has a sword, <br/>   and there is terror on every side. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_26">  <sup>26</sup>Put on sackcloth, my people, <br/>   and roll in ashes; <br/>  mourn with bitter wailing <br/>   as for an only son, <br/>  for suddenly the destroyer <br/>   will come upon us. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_27">  <sup>27</sup>“I have made you a tester of metals <br/>   and my people the ore, <br/>  that you may observe <br/>   and test their ways. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_28">  <sup>28</sup>They are all hardened rebels, <br/>   going about to slander. <br/>  They are bronze and iron; <br/>   they all act corruptly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_29">  <sup>29</sup>The bellows blow fiercely <br/>   to burn away the lead with fire, <br/>  but the refining goes on in vain; <br/>   the wicked are not purged out. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_6_30">  <sup>30</sup>They are called rejected silver, <br/>   because the Lord has rejected them.” <br/></span>
