---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>False Religion Worthless </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_2"><sup>2</sup>“Stand at the gate of the Lord’s house and there proclaim this message: <br/> “ ‘Hear the word of the Lord, all you people of Judah who come through these gates to worship the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_3"><sup>3</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: Reform your ways and your actions, and I will let you live in this place. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_4"><sup>4</sup>Do not trust in deceptive words and say, “This is the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord!” </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_5"><sup>5</sup>If you really change your ways and your actions and deal with each other justly, </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_6"><sup>6</sup>if you do not oppress the foreigner, the fatherless or the widow and do not shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do not follow other gods to your own harm, </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_7"><sup>7</sup>then I will let you live in this place, in the land I gave your ancestors for ever and ever. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_8"><sup>8</sup>But look, you are trusting in deceptive words that are worthless. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_7_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘Will you steal and murder, commit adultery and perjury,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and swear by false gods">⚓</a> burn incense to Baal and follow other gods you have not known, </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_10"><sup>10</sup>and then come and stand before me in this house, which bears my Name, and say, “We are safe”—safe to do all these detestable things? </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_11"><sup>11</sup>Has this house, which bears my Name, become a den of robbers to you? But I have been watching! declares the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>“ ‘Go now to the place in Shiloh where I first made a dwelling for my Name, and see what I did to it because of the wickedness of my people Israel. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_13"><sup>13</sup>While you were doing all these things, declares the Lord, I spoke to you again and again, but you did not listen; I called you, but you did not answer. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_14"><sup>14</sup>Therefore, what I did to Shiloh I will now do to the house that bears my Name, the temple you trust in, the place I gave to you and your ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_15"><sup>15</sup>I will thrust you from my presence, just as I did all your fellow Israelites, the people of Ephraim.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_7_16"> <sup>16</sup>“So do not pray for this people nor offer any plea or petition for them; do not plead with me, for I will not listen to you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_17"><sup>17</sup>Do you not see what they are doing in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_18"><sup>18</sup>The children gather wood, the fathers light the fire, and the women knead the dough and make cakes to offer to the Queen of Heaven. They pour out drink offerings to other gods to arouse my anger. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_19"><sup>19</sup>But am I the one they are provoking? declares the Lord. Are they not rather harming themselves, to their own shame? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_7_20"> <sup>20</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: My anger and my wrath will be poured out on this place—on man and beast, on the trees of the field and on the crops of your land—and it will burn and not be quenched. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_7_21"> <sup>21</sup>“ ‘This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: Go ahead, add your burnt offerings to your other sacrifices and eat the meat yourselves! </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_22"><sup>22</sup>For when I brought your ancestors out of Egypt and spoke to them, I did not just give them commands about burnt offerings and sacrifices, </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_23"><sup>23</sup>but I gave them this command: Obey me, and I will be your God and you will be my people. Walk in obedience to all I command you, that it may go well with you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_24"><sup>24</sup>But they did not listen or pay attention; instead, they followed the stubborn inclinations of their evil hearts. They went backward and not forward. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_25"><sup>25</sup>From the time your ancestors left Egypt until now, day after day, again and again I sent you my servants the prophets. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_26"><sup>26</sup>But they did not listen to me or pay attention. They were stiff-necked and did more evil than their ancestors.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_7_27"> <sup>27</sup>“When you tell them all this, they will not listen to you; when you call to them, they will not answer. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_28"><sup>28</sup>Therefore say to them, ‘This is the nation that has not obeyed the Lord its God or responded to correction. Truth has perished; it has vanished from their lips. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_7_29"> <sup>29</sup>“ ‘Cut off your hair and throw it away; take up a lament on the barren heights, for the Lord has rejected and abandoned this generation that is under his wrath. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_7_30"> <sup>30</sup>“ ‘The people of Judah have done evil in my eyes, declares the Lord. They have set up their detestable idols in the house that bears my Name and have defiled it. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_31"><sup>31</sup>They have built the high places of Topheth in the Valley of Ben Hinnom to burn their sons and daughters in the fire—something I did not command, nor did it enter my mind. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_32"><sup>32</sup>So beware, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when people will no longer call it Topheth or the Valley of Ben Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter, for they will bury the dead in Topheth until there is no more room. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_33"><sup>33</sup>Then the carcasses of this people will become food for the birds and the wild animals, and there will be no one to frighten them away. </span>
<span class="verse gie_7_34"><sup>34</sup>I will bring an end to the sounds of joy and gladness and to the voices of bride and bridegroom in the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem, for the land will become desolate. <br/></span>
