---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The Valley of Slaughter </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>“ ‘At that time, declares the Lord, the bones of the kings and officials of Judah, the bones of the priests and prophets, and the bones of the people of Jerusalem will be removed from their graves. </span>
<span class="verse gie_8_2"><sup>2</sup>They will be exposed to the sun and the moon and all the stars of the heavens, which they have loved and served and which they have followed and consulted and worshiped. They will not be gathered up or buried, but will be like dung lying on the ground. </span>
<span class="verse gie_8_3"><sup>3</sup>Wherever I banish them, all the survivors of this evil nation will prefer death to life, declares the Lord Almighty.’ <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Sin and Punishment </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_8_4"> <sup>4</sup>“Say to them, ‘This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘When people fall down, do they not get up? <br/>   When someone turns away, do they not return? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_5">  <sup>5</sup>Why then have these people turned away? <br/>   Why does Jerusalem always turn away? <br/>  They cling to deceit; <br/>   they refuse to return. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_6">  <sup>6</sup>I have listened attentively, <br/>   but they do not say what is right. <br/>  None of them repent of their wickedness, <br/>   saying, “What have I done?” <br/>  Each pursues their own course <br/>   like a horse charging into battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_7">  <sup>7</sup>Even the stork in the sky <br/>   knows her appointed seasons, <br/>  and the dove, the swift and the thrush <br/>   observe the time of their migration. <br/>  But my people do not know <br/>   the requirements of the Lord. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_8">  <sup>8</sup>“ ‘How can you say, “We are wise, <br/>   for we have the law of the Lord,” <br/>  when actually the lying pen of the scribes <br/>   has handled it falsely? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_9">  <sup>9</sup>The wise will be put to shame; <br/>   they will be dismayed and trapped. <br/>  Since they have rejected the word of the Lord, <br/>   what kind of wisdom do they have? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_10">  <sup>10</sup>Therefore I will give their wives to other men <br/>   and their fields to new owners. <br/>  From the least to the greatest, <br/>   all are greedy for gain; <br/>  prophets and priests alike, <br/>   all practice deceit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_11">  <sup>11</sup>They dress the wound of my people <br/>   as though it were not serious. <br/>  “Peace, peace,” they say, <br/>   when there is no peace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_12">  <sup>12</sup>Are they ashamed of their detestable conduct? <br/>   No, they have no shame at all; <br/>   they do not even know how to blush. <br/>  So they will fall among the fallen; <br/>   they will be brought down when they are punished, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">says the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_13">  <sup>13</sup>“ ‘I will take away their harvest, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>   There will be no grapes on the vine. <br/>  There will be no figs on the tree, <br/>   and their leaves will wither. <br/>  What I have given them <br/>   will be taken from them.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this sentence is uncertain.">⚓</a> ’ ” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_14">  <sup>14</sup>Why are we sitting here? <br/>   Gather together! <br/>  Let us flee to the fortified cities <br/>   and perish there! <br/>  For the Lord our God has doomed us to perish <br/>   and given us poisoned water to drink, <br/>   because we have sinned against him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_15">  <sup>15</sup>We hoped for peace <br/>   but no good has come, <br/>  for a time of healing <br/>   but there is only terror. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_16">  <sup>16</sup>The snorting of the enemy’s horses <br/>   is heard from Dan; <br/>  at the neighing of their stallions <br/>   the whole land trembles. <br/>  They have come to devour <br/>   the land and everything in it, <br/>   the city and all who live there. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_17">  <sup>17</sup>“See, I will send venomous snakes among you, <br/>   vipers that cannot be charmed, <br/>   and they will bite you,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_18">  <sup>18</sup>You who are my Comforter<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> in sorrow, <br/>   my heart is faint within me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_19">  <sup>19</sup>Listen to the cry of my people <br/>   from a land far away: <br/>  “Is the Lord not in Zion? <br/>   Is her King no longer there?” <br/><br/>  “Why have they aroused my anger with their images, <br/>   with their worthless foreign idols?” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_20">  <sup>20</sup>“The harvest is past, <br/>   the summer has ended, <br/>   and we are not saved.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_21">  <sup>21</sup>Since my people are crushed, I am crushed; <br/>   I mourn, and horror grips me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_8_22">  <sup>22</sup>Is there no balm in Gilead? <br/>   Is there no physician there? <br/>  Why then is there no healing <br/>   for the wound of my people? <br/><br/></span>
