---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_9_1">  <sup>1</sup>Oh, that my head were a spring of water <br/>   and my eyes a fountain of tears! <br/>  I would weep day and night <br/>   for the slain of my people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_2">  <sup>2</sup>Oh, that I had in the desert <br/>   a lodging place for travelers, <br/>  so that I might leave my people <br/>   and go away from them; <br/>  for they are all adulterers, <br/>   a crowd of unfaithful people. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_3">  <sup>3</sup>“They make ready their tongue <br/>   like a bow, to shoot lies; <br/>  it is not by truth <br/>   that they triumph<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or lies; / they are not valiant for truth">⚓</a> in the land. <br/>  They go from one sin to another; <br/>   they do not acknowledge me,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_4">  <sup>4</sup>“Beware of your friends; <br/>   do not trust anyone in your clan. <br/>  For every one of them is a deceiver,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or a deceiving Jacob">⚓</a><br/>   and every friend a slanderer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_5">  <sup>5</sup>Friend deceives friend, <br/>   and no one speaks the truth. <br/>  They have taught their tongues to lie; <br/>   they weary themselves with sinning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_6">  <sup>6</sup>You<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Jeremiah (the Hebrew is singular)">⚓</a> live in the midst of deception; <br/>   in their deceit they refuse to acknowledge me,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord Almighty says: <br/>  “See, I will refine and test them, <br/>   for what else can I do <br/>   because of the sin of my people? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_8">  <sup>8</sup>Their tongue is a deadly arrow; <br/>   it speaks deceitfully. <br/>  With their mouths they all speak cordially to their neighbors, <br/>   but in their hearts they set traps for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_9">  <sup>9</sup>Should I not punish them for this?” <br/>   declares the Lord. <br/>  “Should I not avenge myself <br/>   on such a nation as this?” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_10">  <sup>10</sup>I will weep and wail for the mountains <br/>   and take up a lament concerning the wilderness grasslands. <br/>  They are desolate and untraveled, <br/>   and the lowing of cattle is not heard. <br/>  The birds have all fled <br/>   and the animals are gone. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_11">  <sup>11</sup>“I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins, <br/>   a haunt of jackals; <br/>  and I will lay waste the towns of Judah <br/>   so no one can live there.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_12"> <sup>12</sup>Who is wise enough to understand this? Who has been instructed by the Lord and can explain it? Why has the land been ruined and laid waste like a desert that no one can cross? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_13"> <sup>13</sup>The Lord said, “It is because they have forsaken my law, which I set before them; they have not obeyed me or followed my law. </span>
<span class="verse gie_9_14"><sup>14</sup>Instead, they have followed the stubbornness of their hearts; they have followed the Baals, as their ancestors taught them.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_9_15"><sup>15</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: “See, I will make this people eat bitter food and drink poisoned water. </span>
<span class="verse gie_9_16"><sup>16</sup>I will scatter them among nations that neither they nor their ancestors have known, and I will pursue them with the sword until I have made an end of them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_17"> <sup>17</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: <br/>  “Consider now! Call for the wailing women to come; <br/>   send for the most skillful of them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_18">  <sup>18</sup>Let them come quickly <br/>   and wail over us <br/>  till our eyes overflow with tears <br/>   and water streams from our eyelids. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_19">  <sup>19</sup>The sound of wailing is heard from Zion: <br/>   ‘How ruined we are! <br/>   How great is our shame! <br/>  We must leave our land <br/>   because our houses are in ruins.’ ” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_20">  <sup>20</sup>Now, you women, hear the word of the Lord; <br/>   open your ears to the words of his mouth. <br/>  Teach your daughters how to wail; <br/>   teach one another a lament. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_21">  <sup>21</sup>Death has climbed in through our windows <br/>   and has entered our fortresses; <br/>  it has removed the children from the streets <br/>   and the young men from the public squares. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_22"> <sup>22</sup>Say, “This is what the Lord declares: <br/>  “ ‘Dead bodies will lie <br/>   like dung on the open field, <br/>  like cut grain behind the reaper, <br/>   with no one to gather them.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_23"> <sup>23</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Let not the wise boast of their wisdom <br/>   or the strong boast of their strength <br/>   or the rich boast of their riches, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_24">  <sup>24</sup>but let the one who boasts boast about this: <br/>   that they have the understanding to know me, <br/>  that I am the Lord, who exercises kindness, <br/>   justice and righteousness on earth, <br/>   for in these I delight,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_9_25"> <sup>25</sup>“The days are coming,” declares the Lord, “when I will punish all who are circumcised only in the flesh— </span>
<span class="verse gie_9_26"><sup>26</sup>Egypt, Judah, Edom, Ammon, Moab and all who live in the wilderness in distant places.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or wilderness and who clip the hair by their foreheads">⚓</a> For all these nations are really uncircumcised, and even the whole house of Israel is uncircumcised in heart.” <br/></span>
