---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>God and Idols </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Hear what the Lord says to you, people of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse gie_10_2"><sup>2</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Do not learn the ways of the nations <br/>   or be terrified by signs in the heavens, <br/>   though the nations are terrified by them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_3">  <sup>3</sup>For the practices of the peoples are worthless; <br/>   they cut a tree out of the forest, <br/>   and a craftsman shapes it with his chisel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_4">  <sup>4</sup>They adorn it with silver and gold; <br/>   they fasten it with hammer and nails <br/>   so it will not totter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_5">  <sup>5</sup>Like a scarecrow in a cucumber field, <br/>   their idols cannot speak; <br/>  they must be carried <br/>   because they cannot walk. <br/>  Do not fear them; <br/>   they can do no harm <br/>   nor can they do any good.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_6">  <sup>6</sup>No one is like you, Lord; <br/>   you are great, <br/>   and your name is mighty in power. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_7">  <sup>7</sup>Who should not fear you, <br/>   King of the nations? <br/>   This is your due. <br/>  Among all the wise leaders of the nations <br/>   and in all their kingdoms, <br/>   there is no one like you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_8">  <sup>8</sup>They are all senseless and foolish; <br/>   they are taught by worthless wooden idols. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_9">  <sup>9</sup>Hammered silver is brought from Tarshish <br/>   and gold from Uphaz. <br/>  What the craftsman and goldsmith have made <br/>   is then dressed in blue and purple— <br/>   all made by skilled workers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_10">  <sup>10</sup>But the Lord is the true God; <br/>   he is the living God, the eternal King. <br/>  When he is angry, the earth trembles; <br/>   the nations cannot endure his wrath. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Tell them this: ‘These gods, who did not make the heavens and the earth, will perish from the earth and from under the heavens.’ ”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The text of this verse is in Aramaic.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_12">  <sup>12</sup>But God made the earth by his power; <br/>   he founded the world by his wisdom <br/>   and stretched out the heavens by his understanding. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_13">  <sup>13</sup>When he thunders, the waters in the heavens roar; <br/>   he makes clouds rise from the ends of the earth. <br/>  He sends lightning with the rain <br/>   and brings out the wind from his storehouses. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_14">  <sup>14</sup>Everyone is senseless and without knowledge; <br/>   every goldsmith is shamed by his idols. <br/>  The images he makes are a fraud; <br/>   they have no breath in them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_15">  <sup>15</sup>They are worthless, the objects of mockery; <br/>   when their judgment comes, they will perish. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_16">  <sup>16</sup>He who is the Portion of Jacob is not like these, <br/>   for he is the Maker of all things, <br/>  including Israel, the people of his inheritance— <br/>   the Lord Almighty is his name. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Coming Destruction </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_10_17">  <sup>17</sup>Gather up your belongings to leave the land, <br/>   you who live under siege. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_18">  <sup>18</sup>For this is what the Lord says: <br/>   “At this time I will hurl out <br/>   those who live in this land; <br/>  I will bring distress on them <br/>   so that they may be captured.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_19">  <sup>19</sup>Woe to me because of my injury! <br/>   My wound is incurable! <br/>  Yet I said to myself, <br/>   “This is my sickness, and I must endure it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_20">  <sup>20</sup>My tent is destroyed; <br/>   all its ropes are snapped. <br/>  My children are gone from me and are no more; <br/>   no one is left now to pitch my tent <br/>   or to set up my shelter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_21">  <sup>21</sup>The shepherds are senseless <br/>   and do not inquire of the Lord; <br/>  so they do not prosper <br/>   and all their flock is scattered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_22">  <sup>22</sup>Listen! The report is coming— <br/>   a great commotion from the land of the north! <br/>  It will make the towns of Judah desolate, <br/>   a haunt of jackals. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jeremiah’s Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_10_23">  <sup>23</sup>Lord, I know that people’s lives are not their own; <br/>   it is not for them to direct their steps. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_24">  <sup>24</sup>Discipline me, Lord, but only in due measure— <br/>   not in your anger, <br/>   or you will reduce me to nothing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_10_25">  <sup>25</sup>Pour out your wrath on the nations <br/>   that do not acknowledge you, <br/>   on the peoples who do not call on your name. <br/>  For they have devoured Jacob; <br/>   they have devoured him completely <br/>   and destroyed his homeland. <br/></span>
