---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>The Covenant Is Broken </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_2"><sup>2</sup>“Listen to the terms of this covenant and tell them to the people of Judah and to those who live in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_3"><sup>3</sup>Tell them that this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: ‘Cursed is the one who does not obey the terms of this covenant— </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_4"><sup>4</sup>the terms I commanded your ancestors when I brought them out of Egypt, out of the iron-smelting furnace.’ I said, ‘Obey me and do everything I command you, and you will be my people, and I will be your God. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_5"><sup>5</sup>Then I will fulfill the oath I swore to your ancestors, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey’—the land you possess today.” <br/> I answered, “Amen, Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_11_6"> <sup>6</sup>The Lord said to me, “Proclaim all these words in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem: ‘Listen to the terms of this covenant and follow them. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_7"><sup>7</sup>From the time I brought your ancestors up from Egypt until today, I warned them again and again, saying, “Obey me.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_8"><sup>8</sup>But they did not listen or pay attention; instead, they followed the stubbornness of their evil hearts. So I brought on them all the curses of the covenant I had commanded them to follow but that they did not keep.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then the Lord said to me, “There is a conspiracy among the people of Judah and those who live in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_10"><sup>10</sup>They have returned to the sins of their ancestors, who refused to listen to my words. They have followed other gods to serve them. Both Israel and Judah have broken the covenant I made with their ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_11"><sup>11</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord says: ‘I will bring on them a disaster they cannot escape. Although they cry out to me, I will not listen to them. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_12"><sup>12</sup>The towns of Judah and the people of Jerusalem will go and cry out to the gods to whom they burn incense, but they will not help them at all when disaster strikes. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_13"><sup>13</sup>You, Judah, have as many gods as you have towns; and the altars you have set up to burn incense to that shameful god Baal are as many as the streets of Jerusalem.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Do not pray for this people or offer any plea or petition for them, because I will not listen when they call to me in the time of their distress. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_11_15">  <sup>15</sup>“What is my beloved doing in my temple <br/>   as she, with many others, works out her evil schemes? <br/>   Can consecrated meat avert your punishment? <br/>  When you engage in your wickedness, <br/>   then you rejoice.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Could consecrated meat avert your punishment? / Then you would rejoice">⚓</a> ” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_11_16">  <sup>16</sup>The Lord called you a thriving olive tree <br/>   with fruit beautiful in form. <br/>  But with the roar of a mighty storm <br/>   he will set it on fire, <br/>   and its branches will be broken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_11_17"><sup>17</sup>The Lord Almighty, who planted you, has decreed disaster for you, because the people of both Israel and Judah have done evil and aroused my anger by burning incense to Baal. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Plot Against Jeremiah </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_11_18"> <sup>18</sup>Because the Lord revealed their plot to me, I knew it, for at that time he showed me what they were doing. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_19"><sup>19</sup>I had been like a gentle lamb led to the slaughter; I did not realize that they had plotted against me, saying, <br/>  “Let us destroy the tree and its fruit; <br/>   let us cut him off from the land of the living, <br/>   that his name be remembered no more.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_11_20">  <sup>20</sup>But you, Lord Almighty, who judge righteously <br/>   and test the heart and mind, <br/>  let me see your vengeance on them, <br/>   for to you I have committed my cause. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_11_21"> <sup>21</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord says about the people of Anathoth who are threatening to kill you, saying, “Do not prophesy in the name of the Lord or you will die by our hands”— </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_22"><sup>22</sup>therefore this is what the Lord Almighty says: “I will punish them. Their young men will die by the sword, their sons and daughters by famine. </span>
<span class="verse gie_11_23"><sup>23</sup>Not even a remnant will be left to them, because I will bring disaster on the people of Anathoth in the year of their punishment.” <br/></span>
