---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Jeremiah’s Complaint </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_12_1">  <sup>1</sup>You are always righteous, Lord, <br/>   when I bring a case before you. <br/>  Yet I would speak with you about your justice: <br/>   Why does the way of the wicked prosper? <br/>   Why do all the faithless live at ease? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_2">  <sup>2</sup>You have planted them, and they have taken root; <br/>   they grow and bear fruit. <br/>  You are always on their lips <br/>   but far from their hearts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_3">  <sup>3</sup>Yet you know me, Lord; <br/>   you see me and test my thoughts about you. <br/>  Drag them off like sheep to be butchered! <br/>   Set them apart for the day of slaughter! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_4">  <sup>4</sup>How long will the land lie parched <br/>   and the grass in every field be withered? <br/>  Because those who live in it are wicked, <br/>   the animals and birds have perished. <br/>  Moreover, the people are saying, <br/>   “He will not see what happens to us.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Answer </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_12_5">  <sup>5</sup>“If you have raced with men on foot <br/>   and they have worn you out, <br/>   how can you compete with horses? <br/>  If you stumble<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or you feel secure only">⚓</a> in safe country, <br/>   how will you manage in the thickets by<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the flooding of">⚓</a> the Jordan? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_6">  <sup>6</sup>Your relatives, members of your own family— <br/>   even they have betrayed you; <br/>   they have raised a loud cry against you. <br/>  Do not trust them, <br/>   though they speak well of you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_7">  <sup>7</sup>“I will forsake my house, <br/>   abandon my inheritance; <br/>  I will give the one I love <br/>   into the hands of her enemies. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_8">  <sup>8</sup>My inheritance has become to me <br/>   like a lion in the forest. <br/>  She roars at me; <br/>   therefore I hate her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_9">  <sup>9</sup>Has not my inheritance become to me <br/>   like a speckled bird of prey <br/>   that other birds of prey surround and attack? <br/>  Go and gather all the wild beasts; <br/>   bring them to devour. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_10">  <sup>10</sup>Many shepherds will ruin my vineyard <br/>   and trample down my field; <br/>  they will turn my pleasant field <br/>   into a desolate wasteland. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_11">  <sup>11</sup>It will be made a wasteland, <br/>   parched and desolate before me; <br/>  the whole land will be laid waste <br/>   because there is no one who cares. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_12">  <sup>12</sup>Over all the barren heights in the desert <br/>   destroyers will swarm, <br/>  for the sword of the Lord will devour <br/>   from one end of the land to the other; <br/>   no one will be safe. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_13">  <sup>13</sup>They will sow wheat but reap thorns; <br/>   they will wear themselves out but gain nothing. <br/>  They will bear the shame of their harvest <br/>   because of the Lord’s fierce anger.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_12_14"> <sup>14</sup>This is what the Lord says: “As for all my wicked neighbors who seize the inheritance I gave my people Israel, I will uproot them from their lands and I will uproot the people of Judah from among them. </span>
<span class="verse gie_12_15"><sup>15</sup>But after I uproot them, I will again have compassion and will bring each of them back to their own inheritance and their own country. </span>
<span class="verse gie_12_16"><sup>16</sup>And if they learn well the ways of my people and swear by my name, saying, ‘As surely as the Lord lives’—even as they once taught my people to swear by Baal—then they will be established among my people. </span>
<span class="verse gie_12_17"><sup>17</sup>But if any nation does not listen, I will completely uproot and destroy it,” declares the Lord. <br/></span>
