---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>A Linen Belt </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what the Lord said to me: “Go and buy a linen belt and put it around your waist, but do not let it touch water.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_2"><sup>2</sup>So I bought a belt, as the Lord directed, and put it around my waist. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to me a second time: </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_4"><sup>4</sup>“Take the belt you bought and are wearing around your waist, and go now to Perath<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or possibly to the Euphrates ; similarly in verses 5-7">⚓</a> and hide it there in a crevice in the rocks.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_5"><sup>5</sup>So I went and hid it at Perath, as the Lord told me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_6"> <sup>6</sup>Many days later the Lord said to me, “Go now to Perath and get the belt I told you to hide there.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_7"><sup>7</sup>So I went to Perath and dug up the belt and took it from the place where I had hidden it, but now it was ruined and completely useless. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_9"><sup>9</sup>“This is what the Lord says: ‘In the same way I will ruin the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_10"><sup>10</sup>These wicked people, who refuse to listen to my words, who follow the stubbornness of their hearts and go after other gods to serve and worship them, will be like this belt—completely useless! </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_11"><sup>11</sup>For as a belt is bound around the waist, so I bound all the people of Israel and all the people of Judah to me,’ declares the Lord, ‘to be my people for my renown and praise and honor. But they have not listened.’ <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Wineskins </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_13_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Say to them: ‘This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: Every wineskin should be filled with wine.’ And if they say to you, ‘Don’t we know that every wineskin should be filled with wine?’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_13"><sup>13</sup>then tell them, ‘This is what the Lord says: I am going to fill with drunkenness all who live in this land, including the kings who sit on David’s throne, the priests, the prophets and all those living in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse gie_13_14"><sup>14</sup>I will smash them one against the other, parents and children alike, declares the Lord. I will allow no pity or mercy or compassion to keep me from destroying them.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Threat of Captivity </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_13_15">  <sup>15</sup>Hear and pay attention, <br/>   do not be arrogant, <br/>   for the Lord has spoken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_16">  <sup>16</sup>Give glory to the Lord your God <br/>   before he brings the darkness, <br/>  before your feet stumble <br/>   on the darkening hills. <br/>  You hope for light, <br/>   but he will turn it to utter darkness <br/>   and change it to deep gloom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_17">  <sup>17</sup>If you do not listen, <br/>   I will weep in secret <br/>   because of your pride; <br/>  my eyes will weep bitterly, <br/>   overflowing with tears, <br/>   because the Lord’s flock will be taken captive. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_18">  <sup>18</sup>Say to the king and to the queen mother, <br/>   “Come down from your thrones, <br/>  for your glorious crowns <br/>   will fall from your heads.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_19">  <sup>19</sup>The cities in the Negev will be shut up, <br/>   and there will be no one to open them. <br/>  All Judah will be carried into exile, <br/>   carried completely away. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_20">  <sup>20</sup>Look up and see <br/>   those who are coming from the north. <br/>  Where is the flock that was entrusted to you, <br/>   the sheep of which you boasted? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_21">  <sup>21</sup>What will you say when the Lord sets over you <br/>   those you cultivated as your special allies? <br/>  Will not pain grip you <br/>   like that of a woman in labor? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_22">  <sup>22</sup>And if you ask yourself, <br/>   “Why has this happened to me?”— <br/>  it is because of your many sins <br/>   that your skirts have been torn off <br/>   and your body mistreated. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_23">  <sup>23</sup>Can an Ethiopian<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Cushite (probably a person from the upper Nile region)">⚓</a> change his skin <br/>   or a leopard its spots? <br/>  Neither can you do good <br/>   who are accustomed to doing evil. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_24">  <sup>24</sup>“I will scatter you like chaff <br/>   driven by the desert wind. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_25">  <sup>25</sup>This is your lot, <br/>   the portion I have decreed for you,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord, </aside><br/>  “because you have forgotten me <br/>   and trusted in false gods. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_26">  <sup>26</sup>I will pull up your skirts over your face <br/>   that your shame may be seen— <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_13_27">  <sup>27</sup>your adulteries and lustful neighings, <br/>   your shameless prostitution! <br/>  I have seen your detestable acts <br/>   on the hills and in the fields. <br/>  Woe to you, Jerusalem! <br/>   How long will you be unclean?” <br/></span>
