---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to me: “Even if Moses and Samuel were to stand before me, my heart would not go out to this people. Send them away from my presence! Let them go! </span>
<span class="verse gie_15_2"><sup>2</sup>And if they ask you, ‘Where shall we go?’ tell them, ‘This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Those destined for death, to death; <br/>  those for the sword, to the sword; <br/>  those for starvation, to starvation; <br/>  those for captivity, to captivity.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_3"> <sup>3</sup>“I will send four kinds of destroyers against them,” declares the Lord, “the sword to kill and the dogs to drag away and the birds and the wild animals to devour and destroy. </span>
<span class="verse gie_15_4"><sup>4</sup>I will make them abhorrent to all the kingdoms of the earth because of what Manasseh son of Hezekiah king of Judah did in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_5">  <sup>5</sup>“Who will have pity on you, Jerusalem? <br/>   Who will mourn for you? <br/>   Who will stop to ask how you are? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_6">  <sup>6</sup>You have rejected me,” declares the Lord. <br/>   “You keep on backsliding. <br/>  So I will reach out and destroy you; <br/>   I am tired of holding back. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_7">  <sup>7</sup>I will winnow them with a winnowing fork <br/>   at the city gates of the land. <br/>  I will bring bereavement and destruction on my people, <br/>   for they have not changed their ways. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_8">  <sup>8</sup>I will make their widows more numerous <br/>   than the sand of the sea. <br/>  At midday I will bring a destroyer <br/>   against the mothers of their young men; <br/>  suddenly I will bring down on them <br/>   anguish and terror. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_9">  <sup>9</sup>The mother of seven will grow faint <br/>   and breathe her last. <br/>  Her sun will set while it is still day; <br/>   she will be disgraced and humiliated. <br/>  I will put the survivors to the sword <br/>   before their enemies,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_10">  <sup>10</sup>Alas, my mother, that you gave me birth, <br/>   a man with whom the whole land strives and contends! <br/>  I have neither lent nor borrowed, <br/>   yet everyone curses me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_11"> <sup>11</sup>The Lord said, <br/>  “Surely I will deliver you for a good purpose; <br/>   surely I will make your enemies plead with you <br/>   in times of disaster and times of distress. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Can a man break iron— <br/>   iron from the north—or bronze? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_13">  <sup>13</sup>“Your wealth and your treasures <br/>   I will give as plunder, without charge, <br/>  because of all your sins <br/>   throughout your country. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_14">  <sup>14</sup>I will enslave you to your enemies <br/>   in<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint and Syriac (see also 17:4); most Hebrew manuscripts I will cause your enemies to bring you / into">⚓</a> a land you do not know, <br/>  for my anger will kindle a fire <br/>   that will burn against you.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_15">  <sup>15</sup>Lord, you understand; <br/>   remember me and care for me. <br/>   Avenge me on my persecutors. <br/>  You are long-suffering—do not take me away; <br/>   think of how I suffer reproach for your sake. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_16">  <sup>16</sup>When your words came, I ate them; <br/>   they were my joy and my heart’s delight, <br/>  for I bear your name, <br/>   Lord God Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_17">  <sup>17</sup>I never sat in the company of revelers, <br/>   never made merry with them; <br/>  I sat alone because your hand was on me <br/>   and you had filled me with indignation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_18">  <sup>18</sup>Why is my pain unending <br/>   and my wound grievous and incurable? <br/>  You are to me like a deceptive brook, <br/>   like a spring that fails. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_19"> <sup>19</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord says: <br/>  “If you repent, I will restore you <br/>   that you may serve me; <br/>  if you utter worthy, not worthless, words, <br/>   you will be my spokesman. <br/>  Let this people turn to you, <br/>   but you must not turn to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_20">  <sup>20</sup>I will make you a wall to this people, <br/>   a fortified wall of bronze; <br/>  they will fight against you <br/>   but will not overcome you, <br/>  for I am with you <br/>   to rescue and save you,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_15_21">  <sup>21</sup>“I will save you from the hands of the wicked <br/>   and deliver you from the grasp of the cruel.” <br/></span>
