---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_17_1">  <sup>1</sup>“Judah’s sin is engraved with an iron tool, <br/>   inscribed with a flint point, <br/>  on the tablets of their hearts <br/>   and on the horns of their altars. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_2">  <sup>2</sup>Even their children remember <br/>   their altars and Asherah poles<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, wooden symbols of the goddess Asherah">⚓</a><br/>  beside the spreading trees <br/>   and on the high hills. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_3">  <sup>3</sup>My mountain in the land <br/>   and your<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or hills / 3and the mountains of the land. / Your">⚓</a> wealth and all your treasures <br/>  I will give away as plunder, <br/>   together with your high places, <br/>   because of sin throughout your country. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_4">  <sup>4</sup>Through your own fault you will lose <br/>   the inheritance I gave you. <br/>  I will enslave you to your enemies <br/>   in a land you do not know, <br/>  for you have kindled my anger, <br/>   and it will burn forever.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_5"> <sup>5</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Cursed is the one who trusts in man, <br/>   who draws strength from mere flesh <br/>   and whose heart turns away from the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_6">  <sup>6</sup>That person will be like a bush in the wastelands; <br/>   they will not see prosperity when it comes. <br/>  They will dwell in the parched places of the desert, <br/>   in a salt land where no one lives. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_7">  <sup>7</sup>“But blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord, <br/>   whose confidence is in him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_8">  <sup>8</sup>They will be like a tree planted by the water <br/>   that sends out its roots by the stream. <br/>  It does not fear when heat comes; <br/>   its leaves are always green. <br/>  It has no worries in a year of drought <br/>   and never fails to bear fruit.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_9">  <sup>9</sup>The heart is deceitful above all things <br/>   and beyond cure. <br/>   Who can understand it? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_10">  <sup>10</sup>“I the Lord search the heart <br/>   and examine the mind, <br/>  to reward each person according to their conduct, <br/>   according to what their deeds deserve.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_11">  <sup>11</sup>Like a partridge that hatches eggs it did not lay <br/>   are those who gain riches by unjust means. <br/>  When their lives are half gone, their riches will desert them, <br/>   and in the end they will prove to be fools. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_12">  <sup>12</sup>A glorious throne, exalted from the beginning, <br/>   is the place of our sanctuary. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_13">  <sup>13</sup>Lord, you are the hope of Israel; <br/>   all who forsake you will be put to shame. <br/>  Those who turn away from you will be written in the dust <br/>   because they have forsaken the Lord, <br/>   the spring of living water. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_14">  <sup>14</sup>Heal me, Lord, and I will be healed; <br/>   save me and I will be saved, <br/>   for you are the one I praise. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_15">  <sup>15</sup>They keep saying to me, <br/>   “Where is the word of the Lord? <br/>   Let it now be fulfilled!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_16">  <sup>16</sup>I have not run away from being your shepherd; <br/>   you know I have not desired the day of despair. <br/>   What passes my lips is open before you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_17">  <sup>17</sup>Do not be a terror to me; <br/>   you are my refuge in the day of disaster. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_17_18">  <sup>18</sup>Let my persecutors be put to shame, <br/>   but keep me from shame; <br/>  let them be terrified, <br/>   but keep me from terror. <br/>  Bring on them the day of disaster; <br/>   destroy them with double destruction. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Keeping the Sabbath Day Holy </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_17_19"> <sup>19</sup>This is what the Lord said to me: “Go and stand at the Gate of the People,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Army">⚓</a> through which the kings of Judah go in and out; stand also at all the other gates of Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse gie_17_20"><sup>20</sup>Say to them, ‘Hear the word of the Lord, you kings of Judah and all people of Judah and everyone living in Jerusalem who come through these gates. </span>
<span class="verse gie_17_21"><sup>21</sup>This is what the Lord says: Be careful not to carry a load on the Sabbath day or bring it through the gates of Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse gie_17_22"><sup>22</sup>Do not bring a load out of your houses or do any work on the Sabbath, but keep the Sabbath day holy, as I commanded your ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse gie_17_23"><sup>23</sup>Yet they did not listen or pay attention; they were stiff-necked and would not listen or respond to discipline. </span>
<span class="verse gie_17_24"><sup>24</sup>But if you are careful to obey me, declares the Lord, and bring no load through the gates of this city on the Sabbath, but keep the Sabbath day holy by not doing any work on it, </span>
<span class="verse gie_17_25"><sup>25</sup>then kings who sit on David’s throne will come through the gates of this city with their officials. They and their officials will come riding in chariots and on horses, accompanied by the men of Judah and those living in Jerusalem, and this city will be inhabited forever. </span>
<span class="verse gie_17_26"><sup>26</sup>People will come from the towns of Judah and the villages around Jerusalem, from the territory of Benjamin and the western foothills, from the hill country and the Negev, bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices, grain offerings and incense, and bringing thank offerings to the house of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gie_17_27"><sup>27</sup>But if you do not obey me to keep the Sabbath day holy by not carrying any load as you come through the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, then I will kindle an unquenchable fire in the gates of Jerusalem that will consume her fortresses.’ ” <br/></span>
