---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>At the Potter’s House </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_2"><sup>2</sup>“Go down to the potter’s house, and there I will give you my message.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_3"><sup>3</sup>So I went down to the potter’s house, and I saw him working at the wheel. </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_4"><sup>4</sup>But the pot he was shaping from the clay was marred in his hands; so the potter formed it into another pot, shaping it as seemed best to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to me. </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_6"><sup>6</sup>He said, “Can I not do with you, Israel, as this potter does?” declares the Lord. “Like clay in the hand of the potter, so are you in my hand, Israel. </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_7"><sup>7</sup>If at any time I announce that a nation or kingdom is to be uprooted, torn down and destroyed, </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_8"><sup>8</sup>and if that nation I warned repents of its evil, then I will relent and not inflict on it the disaster I had planned. </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_9"><sup>9</sup>And if at another time I announce that a nation or kingdom is to be built up and planted, </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_10"><sup>10</sup>and if it does evil in my sight and does not obey me, then I will reconsider the good I had intended to do for it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Now therefore say to the people of Judah and those living in Jerusalem, ‘This is what the Lord says: Look! I am preparing a disaster for you and devising a plan against you. So turn from your evil ways, each one of you, and reform your ways and your actions.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_18_12"><sup>12</sup>But they will reply, ‘It’s no use. We will continue with our own plans; we will all follow the stubbornness of our evil hearts.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_13"> <sup>13</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Inquire among the nations: <br/>   Who has ever heard anything like this? <br/>  A most horrible thing has been done <br/>   by Virgin Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_14">  <sup>14</sup>Does the snow of Lebanon <br/>   ever vanish from its rocky slopes? <br/>  Do its cool waters from distant sources <br/>   ever stop flowing?<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this sentence is uncertain.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_15">  <sup>15</sup>Yet my people have forgotten me; <br/>   they burn incense to worthless idols, <br/>  which made them stumble in their ways, <br/>   in the ancient paths. <br/>  They made them walk in byways, <br/>   on roads not built up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_16">  <sup>16</sup>Their land will be an object of horror <br/>   and of lasting scorn; <br/>  all who pass by will be appalled <br/>   and will shake their heads. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_17">  <sup>17</sup>Like a wind from the east, <br/>   I will scatter them before their enemies; <br/>  I will show them my back and not my face <br/>   in the day of their disaster.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_18"> <sup>18</sup>They said, “Come, let’s make plans against Jeremiah; for the teaching of the law by the priest will not cease, nor will counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophets. So come, let’s attack him with our tongues and pay no attention to anything he says.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_19">  <sup>19</sup>Listen to me, Lord; <br/>   hear what my accusers are saying! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_20">  <sup>20</sup>Should good be repaid with evil? <br/>   Yet they have dug a pit for me. <br/>  Remember that I stood before you <br/>   and spoke in their behalf <br/>   to turn your wrath away from them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_21">  <sup>21</sup>So give their children over to famine; <br/>   hand them over to the power of the sword. <br/>  Let their wives be made childless and widows; <br/>   let their men be put to death, <br/>   their young men slain by the sword in battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_22">  <sup>22</sup>Let a cry be heard from their houses <br/>   when you suddenly bring invaders against them, <br/>  for they have dug a pit to capture me <br/>   and have hidden snares for my feet. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_18_23">  <sup>23</sup>But you, Lord, know <br/>   all their plots to kill me. <br/>  Do not forgive their crimes <br/>   or blot out their sins from your sight. <br/>  Let them be overthrown before you; <br/>   deal with them in the time of your anger. <br/></span>
