---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what the Lord says: “Go and buy a clay jar from a potter. Take along some of the elders of the people and of the priests </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_2"><sup>2</sup>and go out to the Valley of Ben Hinnom, near the entrance of the Potsherd Gate. There proclaim the words I tell you, </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_3"><sup>3</sup>and say, ‘Hear the word of the Lord, you kings of Judah and people of Jerusalem. This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: Listen! I am going to bring a disaster on this place that will make the ears of everyone who hears of it tingle. </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_4"><sup>4</sup>For they have forsaken me and made this a place of foreign gods; they have burned incense in it to gods that neither they nor their ancestors nor the kings of Judah ever knew, and they have filled this place with the blood of the innocent. </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_5"><sup>5</sup>They have built the high places of Baal to burn their children in the fire as offerings to Baal—something I did not command or mention, nor did it enter my mind. </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_6"><sup>6</sup>So beware, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when people will no longer call this place Topheth or the Valley of Ben Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_19_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘In this place I will ruin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for ruin sounds like the Hebrew for jar (see verses 1 and 10).">⚓</a> the plans of Judah and Jerusalem. I will make them fall by the sword before their enemies, at the hands of those who want to kill them, and I will give their carcasses as food to the birds and the wild animals. </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_8"><sup>8</sup>I will devastate this city and make it an object of horror and scorn; all who pass by will be appalled and will scoff because of all its wounds. </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_9"><sup>9</sup>I will make them eat the flesh of their sons and daughters, and they will eat one another’s flesh because their enemies will press the siege so hard against them to destroy them.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_19_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Then break the jar while those who go with you are watching, </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_11"><sup>11</sup>and say to them, ‘This is what the Lord Almighty says: I will smash this nation and this city just as this potter’s jar is smashed and cannot be repaired. They will bury the dead in Topheth until there is no more room. </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_12"><sup>12</sup>This is what I will do to this place and to those who live here, declares the Lord. I will make this city like Topheth. </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_13"><sup>13</sup>The houses in Jerusalem and those of the kings of Judah will be defiled like this place, Topheth—all the houses where they burned incense on the roofs to all the starry hosts and poured out drink offerings to other gods.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_19_14"> <sup>14</sup>Jeremiah then returned from Topheth, where the Lord had sent him to prophesy, and stood in the court of the Lord’s temple and said to all the people, </span>
<span class="verse gie_19_15"><sup>15</sup>“This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: ‘Listen! I am going to bring on this city and all the villages around it every disaster I pronounced against them, because they were stiff-necked and would not listen to my words.’ ” <br/></span>
