---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>Jeremiah and Pashhur </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the priest Pashhur son of Immer, the official in charge of the temple of the Lord, heard Jeremiah prophesying these things, </span>
<span class="verse gie_20_2"><sup>2</sup>he had Jeremiah the prophet beaten and put in the stocks at the Upper Gate of Benjamin at the Lord’s temple. </span>
<span class="verse gie_20_3"><sup>3</sup>The next day, when Pashhur released him from the stocks, Jeremiah said to him, “The Lord’s name for you is not Pashhur, but Terror on Every Side. </span>
<span class="verse gie_20_4"><sup>4</sup>For this is what the Lord says: ‘I will make you a terror to yourself and to all your friends; with your own eyes you will see them fall by the sword of their enemies. I will give all Judah into the hands of the king of Babylon, who will carry them away to Babylon or put them to the sword. </span>
<span class="verse gie_20_5"><sup>5</sup>I will deliver all the wealth of this city into the hands of their enemies—all its products, all its valuables and all the treasures of the kings of Judah. They will take it away as plunder and carry it off to Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse gie_20_6"><sup>6</sup>And you, Pashhur, and all who live in your house will go into exile to Babylon. There you will die and be buried, you and all your friends to whom you have prophesied lies.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jeremiah’s Complaint </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_20_7">  <sup>7</sup>You deceived<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or persuaded">⚓</a> me, Lord, and I was deceived<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or persuaded">⚓</a> ; <br/>   you overpowered me and prevailed. <br/>  I am ridiculed all day long; <br/>   everyone mocks me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_8">  <sup>8</sup>Whenever I speak, I cry out <br/>   proclaiming violence and destruction. <br/>  So the word of the Lord has brought me <br/>   insult and reproach all day long. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_9">  <sup>9</sup>But if I say, “I will not mention his word <br/>   or speak anymore in his name,” <br/>  his word is in my heart like a fire, <br/>   a fire shut up in my bones. <br/>  I am weary of holding it in; <br/>   indeed, I cannot. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_10">  <sup>10</sup>I hear many whispering, <br/>   “Terror on every side! <br/>   Denounce him! Let’s denounce him!” <br/>  All my friends <br/>   are waiting for me to slip, saying, <br/>  “Perhaps he will be deceived; <br/>   then we will prevail over him <br/>   and take our revenge on him.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_11">  <sup>11</sup>But the Lord is with me like a mighty warrior; <br/>   so my persecutors will stumble and not prevail. <br/>  They will fail and be thoroughly disgraced; <br/>   their dishonor will never be forgotten. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_12">  <sup>12</sup>Lord Almighty, you who examine the righteous <br/>   and probe the heart and mind, <br/>  let me see your vengeance on them, <br/>   for to you I have committed my cause. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_13">  <sup>13</sup>Sing to the Lord! <br/>   Give praise to the Lord! <br/>  He rescues the life of the needy <br/>   from the hands of the wicked. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_14">  <sup>14</sup>Cursed be the day I was born! <br/>   May the day my mother bore me not be blessed! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_15">  <sup>15</sup>Cursed be the man who brought my father the news, <br/>   who made him very glad, saying, <br/>   “A child is born to you—a son!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_16">  <sup>16</sup>May that man be like the towns <br/>   the Lord overthrew without pity. <br/>  May he hear wailing in the morning, <br/>   a battle cry at noon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_17">  <sup>17</sup>For he did not kill me in the womb, <br/>   with my mother as my grave, <br/>   her womb enlarged forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_20_18">  <sup>18</sup>Why did I ever come out of the womb <br/>   to see trouble and sorrow <br/>   and to end my days in shame? <br/></span>
