---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>Judgment Against Wicked Kings </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what the Lord says: “Go down to the palace of the king of Judah and proclaim this message there: </span>
<span class="verse gie_22_2"><sup>2</sup>‘Hear the word of the Lord to you, king of Judah, you who sit on David’s throne—you, your officials and your people who come through these gates. </span>
<span class="verse gie_22_3"><sup>3</sup>This is what the Lord says: Do what is just and right. Rescue from the hand of the oppressor the one who has been robbed. Do no wrong or violence to the foreigner, the fatherless or the widow, and do not shed innocent blood in this place. </span>
<span class="verse gie_22_4"><sup>4</sup>For if you are careful to carry out these commands, then kings who sit on David’s throne will come through the gates of this palace, riding in chariots and on horses, accompanied by their officials and their people. </span>
<span class="verse gie_22_5"><sup>5</sup>But if you do not obey these commands, declares the Lord, I swear by myself that this palace will become a ruin.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>For this is what the Lord says about the palace of the king of Judah: <br/>  “Though you are like Gilead to me, <br/>   like the summit of Lebanon, <br/>  I will surely make you like a wasteland, <br/>   like towns not inhabited. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_7">  <sup>7</sup>I will send destroyers against you, <br/>   each man with his weapons, <br/>  and they will cut up your fine cedar beams <br/>   and throw them into the fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_8"> <sup>8</sup>“People from many nations will pass by this city and will ask one another, ‘Why has the Lord done such a thing to this great city?’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_22_9"><sup>9</sup>And the answer will be: ‘Because they have forsaken the covenant of the Lord their God and have worshiped and served other gods.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_10">  <sup>10</sup>Do not weep for the dead king or mourn his loss; <br/>   rather, weep bitterly for him who is exiled, <br/>  because he will never return <br/>   nor see his native land again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_11"><sup>11</sup>For this is what the Lord says about Shallum<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Also called Jehoahaz">⚓</a> son of Josiah, who succeeded his father as king of Judah but has gone from this place: “He will never return. </span>
<span class="verse gie_22_12"><sup>12</sup>He will die in the place where they have led him captive; he will not see this land again.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_13">  <sup>13</sup>“Woe to him who builds his palace by unrighteousness, <br/>   his upper rooms by injustice, <br/>  making his own people work for nothing, <br/>   not paying them for their labor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_14">  <sup>14</sup>He says, ‘I will build myself a great palace <br/>   with spacious upper rooms.’ <br/>  So he makes large windows in it, <br/>   panels it with cedar <br/>   and decorates it in red. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_15">  <sup>15</sup>“Does it make you a king <br/>   to have more and more cedar? <br/>  Did not your father have food and drink? <br/>   He did what was right and just, <br/>   so all went well with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_16">  <sup>16</sup>He defended the cause of the poor and needy, <br/>   and so all went well. <br/>  Is that not what it means to know me?” <br/>   declares the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_17">  <sup>17</sup>“But your eyes and your heart <br/>   are set only on dishonest gain, <br/>  on shedding innocent blood <br/>   and on oppression and extortion.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_18"><sup>18</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord says about Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah: <br/>  “They will not mourn for him: <br/>   ‘Alas, my brother! Alas, my sister!’ <br/>  They will not mourn for him: <br/>   ‘Alas, my master! Alas, his splendor!’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_19">  <sup>19</sup>He will have the burial of a donkey— <br/>   dragged away and thrown <br/>   outside the gates of Jerusalem.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_20">  <sup>20</sup>“Go up to Lebanon and cry out, <br/>   let your voice be heard in Bashan, <br/>  cry out from Abarim, <br/>   for all your allies are crushed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_21">  <sup>21</sup>I warned you when you felt secure, <br/>   but you said, ‘I will not listen!’ <br/>  This has been your way from your youth; <br/>   you have not obeyed me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_22">  <sup>22</sup>The wind will drive all your shepherds away, <br/>   and your allies will go into exile. <br/>  Then you will be ashamed and disgraced <br/>   because of all your wickedness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_23">  <sup>23</sup>You who live in ‘Lebanon,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the palace in Jerusalem (see 1 Kings 7:2)">⚓</a> ’ <br/>   who are nestled in cedar buildings, <br/>  how you will groan when pangs come upon you, <br/>   pain like that of a woman in labor! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_24"> <sup>24</sup>“As surely as I live,” declares the Lord, “even if you, Jehoiachin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Koniah, a variant of Jehoiachin ; also in verse 28">⚓</a> son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, were a signet ring on my right hand, I would still pull you off. </span>
<span class="verse gie_22_25"><sup>25</sup>I will deliver you into the hands of those who want to kill you, those you fear—Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and the Babylonians.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_26"><sup>26</sup>I will hurl you and the mother who gave you birth into another country, where neither of you was born, and there you both will die. </span>
<span class="verse gie_22_27"><sup>27</sup>You will never come back to the land you long to return to.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_28">  <sup>28</sup>Is this man Jehoiachin a despised, broken pot, <br/>   an object no one wants? <br/>  Why will he and his children be hurled out, <br/>   cast into a land they do not know? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_29">  <sup>29</sup>O land, land, land, <br/>   hear the word of the Lord! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_22_30">  <sup>30</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Record this man as if childless, <br/>   a man who will not prosper in his lifetime, <br/>  for none of his offspring will prosper, <br/>   none will sit on the throne of David <br/>   or rule anymore in Judah.” <br/></span>
