---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>The Righteous Branch </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>“Woe to the shepherds who are destroying and scattering the sheep of my pasture!” declares the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_2"><sup>2</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says to the shepherds who tend my people: “Because you have scattered my flock and driven them away and have not bestowed care on them, I will bestow punishment on you for the evil you have done,” declares the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_3"><sup>3</sup>“I myself will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them and will bring them back to their pasture, where they will be fruitful and increase in number. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_4"><sup>4</sup>I will place shepherds over them who will tend them, and they will no longer be afraid or terrified, nor will any be missing,” declares the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_5">  <sup>5</sup>“The days are coming,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “when I will raise up for David<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or up from David’s line">⚓</a> a righteous Branch, <br/>  a King who will reign wisely <br/>   and do what is just and right in the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_6">  <sup>6</sup>In his days Judah will be saved <br/>   and Israel will live in safety. <br/>  This is the name by which he will be called: <br/>   The Lord Our Righteous Savior. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_7"><sup>7</sup>“So then, the days are coming,” declares the Lord, “when people will no longer say, ‘As surely as the Lord lives, who brought the Israelites up out of Egypt,’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_8"><sup>8</sup>but they will say, ‘As surely as the Lord lives, who brought the descendants of Israel up out of the land of the north and out of all the countries where he had banished them.’ Then they will live in their own land.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Lying Prophets </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_23_9"> <sup>9</sup>Concerning the prophets: <br/>  My heart is broken within me; <br/>   all my bones tremble. <br/>  I am like a drunken man, <br/>   like a strong man overcome by wine, <br/>  because of the Lord<br/>   and his holy words. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_10">  <sup>10</sup>The land is full of adulterers; <br/>   because of the curse<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or because of these things">⚓</a> the land lies parched <br/>   and the pastures in the wilderness are withered. <br/>  The prophets follow an evil course <br/>   and use their power unjustly. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_11">  <sup>11</sup>“Both prophet and priest are godless; <br/>   even in my temple I find their wickedness,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Therefore their path will become slippery; <br/>   they will be banished to darkness <br/>   and there they will fall. <br/>  I will bring disaster on them <br/>   in the year they are punished,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_13">  <sup>13</sup>“Among the prophets of Samaria <br/>   I saw this repulsive thing: <br/>  They prophesied by Baal <br/>   and led my people Israel astray. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_14">  <sup>14</sup>And among the prophets of Jerusalem <br/>   I have seen something horrible: <br/>   They commit adultery and live a lie. <br/>  They strengthen the hands of evildoers, <br/>   so that not one of them turns from their wickedness. <br/>  They are all like Sodom to me; <br/>   the people of Jerusalem are like Gomorrah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_15"> <sup>15</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord Almighty says concerning the prophets: <br/>  “I will make them eat bitter food <br/>   and drink poisoned water, <br/>  because from the prophets of Jerusalem <br/>   ungodliness has spread throughout the land.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_16"> <sup>16</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: <br/>  “Do not listen to what the prophets are prophesying to you; <br/>   they fill you with false hopes. <br/>  They speak visions from their own minds, <br/>   not from the mouth of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_17">  <sup>17</sup>They keep saying to those who despise me, <br/>   ‘The Lord says: You will have peace.’ <br/>  And to all who follow the stubbornness of their hearts <br/>   they say, ‘No harm will come to you.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_18">  <sup>18</sup>But which of them has stood in the council of the Lord<br/>   to see or to hear his word? <br/>   Who has listened and heard his word? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_19">  <sup>19</sup>See, the storm of the Lord<br/>   will burst out in wrath, <br/>  a whirlwind swirling down <br/>   on the heads of the wicked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_20">  <sup>20</sup>The anger of the Lord will not turn back <br/>   until he fully accomplishes <br/>   the purposes of his heart. <br/>  In days to come <br/>   you will understand it clearly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_21">  <sup>21</sup>I did not send these prophets, <br/>   yet they have run with their message; <br/>  I did not speak to them, <br/>   yet they have prophesied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_22">  <sup>22</sup>But if they had stood in my council, <br/>   they would have proclaimed my words to my people <br/>  and would have turned them from their evil ways <br/>   and from their evil deeds. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_23">  <sup>23</sup>“Am I only a God nearby,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord, </aside><br/>   “and not a God far away? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_24">  <sup>24</sup>Who can hide in secret places <br/>   so that I cannot see them?” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>   “Do not I fill heaven and earth?” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_25"> <sup>25</sup>“I have heard what the prophets say who prophesy lies in my name. They say, ‘I had a dream! I had a dream!’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_26"><sup>26</sup>How long will this continue in the hearts of these lying prophets, who prophesy the delusions of their own minds? </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_27"><sup>27</sup>They think the dreams they tell one another will make my people forget my name, just as their ancestors forgot my name through Baal worship. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_28"><sup>28</sup>Let the prophet who has a dream recount the dream, but let the one who has my word speak it faithfully. For what has straw to do with grain?” declares the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_29"><sup>29</sup>“Is not my word like fire,” declares the Lord, “and like a hammer that breaks a rock in pieces? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_23_30"> <sup>30</sup>“Therefore,” declares the Lord, “I am against the prophets who steal from one another words supposedly from me. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_31"><sup>31</sup>Yes,” declares the Lord, “I am against the prophets who wag their own tongues and yet declare, ‘The Lord declares.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_32"><sup>32</sup>Indeed, I am against those who prophesy false dreams,” declares the Lord. “They tell them and lead my people astray with their reckless lies, yet I did not send or appoint them. They do not benefit these people in the least,” declares the Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>False Prophecy </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_23_33"> <sup>33</sup>“When these people, or a prophet or a priest, ask you, ‘What is the message from the Lord?’ say to them, ‘What message? I will forsake you, declares the Lord.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_34"><sup>34</sup>If a prophet or a priest or anyone else claims, ‘This is a message from the Lord,’ I will punish them and their household. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_35"><sup>35</sup>This is what each of you keeps saying to your friends and other Israelites: ‘What is the Lord’s answer?’ or ‘What has the Lord spoken?’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_36"><sup>36</sup>But you must not mention ‘a message from the Lord’ again, because each one’s word becomes their own message. So you distort the words of the living God, the Lord Almighty, our God. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_37"><sup>37</sup>This is what you keep saying to a prophet: ‘What is the Lord’s answer to you?’ or ‘What has the Lord spoken?’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_38"><sup>38</sup>Although you claim, ‘This is a message from the Lord,’ this is what the Lord says: You used the words, ‘This is a message from the Lord,’ even though I told you that you must not claim, ‘This is a message from the Lord.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_39"><sup>39</sup>Therefore, I will surely forget you and cast you out of my presence along with the city I gave to you and your ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse gie_23_40"><sup>40</sup>I will bring on you everlasting disgrace—everlasting shame that will not be forgotten.” <br/></span>
