---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\27.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>27</h1><h3>Judah to Serve Nebuchadnezzar </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_27_1"> <sup>1</sup>Early in the reign of Zedekiah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A few Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac (see also 27:3,12 and 28:1); most Hebrew manuscripts Jehoiakim (Most Septuagint manuscripts do not have this verse.)">⚓</a> son of Josiah king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_2"><sup>2</sup>This is what the Lord said to me: “Make a yoke out of straps and crossbars and put it on your neck. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_3"><sup>3</sup>Then send word to the kings of Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre and Sidon through the envoys who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_4"><sup>4</sup>Give them a message for their masters and say, ‘This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: “Tell this to your masters: </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_5"><sup>5</sup>With my great power and outstretched arm I made the earth and its people and the animals that are on it, and I give it to anyone I please. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_6"><sup>6</sup>Now I will give all your countries into the hands of my servant Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; I will make even the wild animals subject to him. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_7"><sup>7</sup>All nations will serve him and his son and his grandson until the time for his land comes; then many nations and great kings will subjugate him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_27_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘ “If, however, any nation or kingdom will not serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon or bow its neck under his yoke, I will punish that nation with the sword, famine and plague, declares the Lord, until I destroy it by his hand. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_9"><sup>9</sup>So do not listen to your prophets, your diviners, your interpreters of dreams, your mediums or your sorcerers who tell you, ‘You will not serve the king of Babylon.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_10"><sup>10</sup>They prophesy lies to you that will only serve to remove you far from your lands; I will banish you and you will perish. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_11"><sup>11</sup>But if any nation will bow its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will let that nation remain in its own land to till it and to live there, declares the Lord.” ’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_27_12"> <sup>12</sup>I gave the same message to Zedekiah king of Judah. I said, “Bow your neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon; serve him and his people, and you will live. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_13"><sup>13</sup>Why will you and your people die by the sword, famine and plague with which the Lord has threatened any nation that will not serve the king of Babylon? </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_14"><sup>14</sup>Do not listen to the words of the prophets who say to you, ‘You will not serve the king of Babylon,’ for they are prophesying lies to you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_15"><sup>15</sup>‘I have not sent them,’ declares the Lord. ‘They are prophesying lies in my name. Therefore, I will banish you and you will perish, both you and the prophets who prophesy to you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_27_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then I said to the priests and all these people, “This is what the Lord says: Do not listen to the prophets who say, ‘Very soon now the articles from the Lord’s house will be brought back from Babylon.’ They are prophesying lies to you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_17"><sup>17</sup>Do not listen to them. Serve the king of Babylon, and you will live. Why should this city become a ruin? </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_18"><sup>18</sup>If they are prophets and have the word of the Lord, let them plead with the Lord Almighty that the articles remaining in the house of the Lord and in the palace of the king of Judah and in Jerusalem not be taken to Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_19"><sup>19</sup>For this is what the Lord Almighty says about the pillars, the bronze Sea, the movable stands and the other articles that are left in this city, </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_20"><sup>20</sup>which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon did not take away when he carried Jehoiachin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jeconiah, a variant of Jehoiachin">⚓</a> son of Jehoiakim king of Judah into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon, along with all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem— </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_21"><sup>21</sup>yes, this is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says about the things that are left in the house of the Lord and in the palace of the king of Judah and in Jerusalem: </span>
<span class="verse gie_27_22"><sup>22</sup>‘They will be taken to Babylon and there they will remain until the day I come for them,’ declares the Lord. ‘Then I will bring them back and restore them to this place.’ ” <br/></span>
