---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\28.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>28</h1><h3>The False Prophet Hananiah </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_28_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the fifth month of that same year, the fourth year, early in the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, the prophet Hananiah son of Azzur, who was from Gibeon, said to me in the house of the Lord in the presence of the priests and all the people: </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_2"><sup>2</sup>“This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: ‘I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_3"><sup>3</sup>Within two years I will bring back to this place all the articles of the Lord’s house that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon removed from here and took to Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_4"><sup>4</sup>I will also bring back to this place Jehoiachin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jeconiah, a variant of Jehoiachin">⚓</a> son of Jehoiakim king of Judah and all the other exiles from Judah who went to Babylon,’ declares the Lord, ‘for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_28_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the prophet Jeremiah replied to the prophet Hananiah before the priests and all the people who were standing in the house of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_6"><sup>6</sup>He said, “Amen! May the Lord do so! May the Lord fulfill the words you have prophesied by bringing the articles of the Lord’s house and all the exiles back to this place from Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_7"><sup>7</sup>Nevertheless, listen to what I have to say in your hearing and in the hearing of all the people: </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_8"><sup>8</sup>From early times the prophets who preceded you and me have prophesied war, disaster and plague against many countries and great kingdoms. </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_9"><sup>9</sup>But the prophet who prophesies peace will be recognized as one truly sent by the Lord only if his prediction comes true.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_28_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then the prophet Hananiah took the yoke off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah and broke it, </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_11"><sup>11</sup>and he said before all the people, “This is what the Lord says: ‘In the same way I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon off the neck of all the nations within two years.’ ” At this, the prophet Jeremiah went on his way. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_28_12"> <sup>12</sup>After the prophet Hananiah had broken the yoke off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah, the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah: </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_13"><sup>13</sup>“Go and tell Hananiah, ‘This is what the Lord says: You have broken a wooden yoke, but in its place you will get a yoke of iron. </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_14"><sup>14</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: I will put an iron yoke on the necks of all these nations to make them serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and they will serve him. I will even give him control over the wild animals.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_28_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the prophet Jeremiah said to Hananiah the prophet, “Listen, Hananiah! The Lord has not sent you, yet you have persuaded this nation to trust in lies. </span>
<span class="verse gie_28_16"><sup>16</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord says: ‘I am about to remove you from the face of the earth. This very year you are going to die, because you have preached rebellion against the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_28_17"> <sup>17</sup>In the seventh month of that same year, Hananiah the prophet died. <br/></span>
