---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\30.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1><h3>Restoration of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_30_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse gie_30_2"><sup>2</sup>“This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: ‘Write in a book all the words I have spoken to you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_30_3"><sup>3</sup>The days are coming,’ declares the Lord, ‘when I will bring my people Israel and Judah back from captivity<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or will restore the fortunes of my people Israel and Judah">⚓</a> and restore them to the land I gave their ancestors to possess,’ says the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_4"> <sup>4</sup>These are the words the Lord spoke concerning Israel and Judah: </span>
<span class="verse gie_30_5"><sup>5</sup>“This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Cries of fear are heard— <br/>   terror, not peace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_6">  <sup>6</sup>Ask and see: <br/>   Can a man bear children? <br/>  Then why do I see every strong man <br/>   with his hands on his stomach like a woman in labor, <br/>   every face turned deathly pale? <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_7">  <sup>7</sup>How awful that day will be! <br/>   No other will be like it. <br/>  It will be a time of trouble for Jacob, <br/>   but he will be saved out of it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_8">  <sup>8</sup>“ ‘In that day,’ declares the Lord Almighty, <br/>   ‘I will break the yoke off their necks <br/>  and will tear off their bonds; <br/>   no longer will foreigners enslave them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_9">  <sup>9</sup>Instead, they will serve the Lord their God <br/>   and David their king, <br/>   whom I will raise up for them. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_10">  <sup>10</sup>“ ‘So do not be afraid, Jacob my servant; <br/>   do not be dismayed, Israel,’ <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>  ‘I will surely save you out of a distant place, <br/>   your descendants from the land of their exile. <br/>  Jacob will again have peace and security, <br/>   and no one will make him afraid. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_11">  <sup>11</sup>I am with you and will save you,’ <br/>   declares the Lord. <br/>  ‘Though I completely destroy all the nations <br/>   among which I scatter you, <br/>   I will not completely destroy you. <br/>  I will discipline you but only in due measure; <br/>   I will not let you go entirely unpunished.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_12"> <sup>12</sup>“This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Your wound is incurable, <br/>   your injury beyond healing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_13">  <sup>13</sup>There is no one to plead your cause, <br/>   no remedy for your sore, <br/>   no healing for you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_14">  <sup>14</sup>All your allies have forgotten you; <br/>   they care nothing for you. <br/>  I have struck you as an enemy would <br/>   and punished you as would the cruel, <br/>  because your guilt is so great <br/>   and your sins so many. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_15">  <sup>15</sup>Why do you cry out over your wound, <br/>   your pain that has no cure? <br/>  Because of your great guilt and many sins <br/>   I have done these things to you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_16">  <sup>16</sup>“ ‘But all who devour you will be devoured; <br/>   all your enemies will go into exile. <br/>  Those who plunder you will be plundered; <br/>   all who make spoil of you I will despoil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_17">  <sup>17</sup>But I will restore you to health <br/>   and heal your wounds,’ <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord, </aside><br/>  ‘because you are called an outcast, <br/>   Zion for whom no one cares.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_18"> <sup>18</sup>“This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘I will restore the fortunes of Jacob’s tents <br/>   and have compassion on his dwellings; <br/>  the city will be rebuilt on her ruins, <br/>   and the palace will stand in its proper place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_19">  <sup>19</sup>From them will come songs of thanksgiving <br/>   and the sound of rejoicing. <br/>  I will add to their numbers, <br/>   and they will not be decreased; <br/>  I will bring them honor, <br/>   and they will not be disdained. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_20">  <sup>20</sup>Their children will be as in days of old, <br/>   and their community will be established before me; <br/>   I will punish all who oppress them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_21">  <sup>21</sup>Their leader will be one of their own; <br/>   their ruler will arise from among them. <br/>  I will bring him near and he will come close to me— <br/>   for who is he who will devote himself <br/>   to be close to me?’ <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_22">  <sup>22</sup>“‘So you will be my people, <br/>   and I will be your God.’ ” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_23">  <sup>23</sup>See, the storm of the Lord<br/>   will burst out in wrath, <br/>  a driving wind swirling down <br/>   on the heads of the wicked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_30_24">  <sup>24</sup>The fierce anger of the Lord will not turn back <br/>   until he fully accomplishes <br/>   the purposes of his heart. <br/>  In days to come <br/>   you will understand this. <br/></span>
