---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\31.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>31</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_31_1"> <sup>1</sup>“At that time,” declares the Lord, “I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they will be my people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_2"> <sup>2</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “The people who survive the sword <br/>   will find favor in the wilderness; <br/>   I will come to give rest to Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_3"> <sup>3</sup>The Lord appeared to us in the past,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Lordhas appeared to us from afar">⚓</a> saying: <br/>  “I have loved you with an everlasting love; <br/>   I have drawn you with unfailing kindness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_4">  <sup>4</sup>I will build you up again, <br/>   and you, Virgin Israel, will be rebuilt. <br/>  Again you will take up your timbrels <br/>   and go out to dance with the joyful. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_5">  <sup>5</sup>Again you will plant vineyards <br/>   on the hills of Samaria; <br/>  the farmers will plant them <br/>   and enjoy their fruit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_6">  <sup>6</sup>There will be a day when watchmen cry out <br/>   on the hills of Ephraim, <br/>  ‘Come, let us go up to Zion, <br/>   to the Lord our God.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_7"> <sup>7</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Sing with joy for Jacob; <br/>   shout for the foremost of the nations. <br/>  Make your praises heard, and say, <br/>   ‘Lord, save your people, <br/>   the remnant of Israel.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_8">  <sup>8</sup>See, I will bring them from the land of the north <br/>   and gather them from the ends of the earth. <br/>  Among them will be the blind and the lame, <br/>   expectant mothers and women in labor; <br/>   a great throng will return. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_9">  <sup>9</sup>They will come with weeping; <br/>   they will pray as I bring them back. <br/>  I will lead them beside streams of water <br/>   on a level path where they will not stumble, <br/>  because I am Israel’s father, <br/>   and Ephraim is my firstborn son. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_10">  <sup>10</sup>“Hear the word of the Lord, you nations; <br/>   proclaim it in distant coastlands: <br/>  ‘He who scattered Israel will gather them <br/>   and will watch over his flock like a shepherd.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_11">  <sup>11</sup>For the Lord will deliver Jacob <br/>   and redeem them from the hand of those stronger than they. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_12">  <sup>12</sup>They will come and shout for joy on the heights of Zion; <br/>   they will rejoice in the bounty of the Lord— <br/>  the grain, the new wine and the olive oil, <br/>   the young of the flocks and herds. <br/>  They will be like a well-watered garden, <br/>   and they will sorrow no more. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_13">  <sup>13</sup>Then young women will dance and be glad, <br/>   young men and old as well. <br/>  I will turn their mourning into gladness; <br/>   I will give them comfort and joy instead of sorrow. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_14">  <sup>14</sup>I will satisfy the priests with abundance, <br/>   and my people will be filled with my bounty,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_15"> <sup>15</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “A voice is heard in Ramah, <br/>   mourning and great weeping, <br/>  Rachel weeping for her children <br/>   and refusing to be comforted, <br/>   because they are no more.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_16"> <sup>16</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Restrain your voice from weeping <br/>   and your eyes from tears, <br/>  for your work will be rewarded,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>   “They will return from the land of the enemy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_17">  <sup>17</sup>So there is hope for your descendants,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>   “Your children will return to their own land. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_18">  <sup>18</sup>“I have surely heard Ephraim’s moaning: <br/>   ‘You disciplined me like an unruly calf, <br/>   and I have been disciplined. <br/>  Restore me, and I will return, <br/>   because you are the Lord my God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_19">  <sup>19</sup>After I strayed, <br/>   I repented; <br/>  after I came to understand, <br/>   I beat my breast. <br/>  I was ashamed and humiliated <br/>   because I bore the disgrace of my youth.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_20">  <sup>20</sup>Is not Ephraim my dear son, <br/>   the child in whom I delight? <br/>  Though I often speak against him, <br/>   I still remember him. <br/>  Therefore my heart yearns for him; <br/>   I have great compassion for him,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_21">  <sup>21</sup>“Set up road signs; <br/>   put up guideposts. <br/>  Take note of the highway, <br/>   the road that you take. <br/>  Return, Virgin Israel, <br/>   return to your towns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_22">  <sup>22</sup>How long will you wander, <br/>   unfaithful Daughter Israel? <br/>  The Lord will create a new thing on earth— <br/>   the woman will return to<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or will protect">⚓</a> the man.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_23"> <sup>23</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: “When I bring them back from captivity,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or I restore their fortunes">⚓</a> the people in the land of Judah and in its towns will once again use these words: ‘The Lord bless you, you prosperous city, you sacred mountain.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_31_24"><sup>24</sup>People will live together in Judah and all its towns—farmers and those who move about with their flocks. </span>
<span class="verse gie_31_25"><sup>25</sup>I will refresh the weary and satisfy the faint.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_26"> <sup>26</sup>At this I awoke and looked around. My sleep had been pleasant to me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_27"> <sup>27</sup>“The days are coming,” declares the Lord, “when I will plant the kingdoms of Israel and Judah with the offspring of people and of animals. </span>
<span class="verse gie_31_28"><sup>28</sup>Just as I watched over them to uproot and tear down, and to overthrow, destroy and bring disaster, so I will watch over them to build and to plant,” declares the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gie_31_29"><sup>29</sup>“In those days people will no longer say, <br/>  ‘The parents have eaten sour grapes, <br/>   and the children’s teeth are set on edge.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_30"> <sup>30</sup>Instead, everyone will die for their own sin; whoever eats sour grapes—their own teeth will be set on edge. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_31">  <sup>31</sup>“The days are coming,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “when I will make a new covenant <br/>  with the people of Israel <br/>   and with the people of Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_32">  <sup>32</sup>It will not be like the covenant <br/>   I made with their ancestors <br/>  when I took them by the hand <br/>   to lead them out of Egypt, <br/>  because they broke my covenant, <br/>   though I was a husband to<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint and Syriac / and I turned away from">⚓</a> them,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or was their master">⚓</a> ” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_33">  <sup>33</sup>“This is the covenant I will make with the people of Israel <br/>   after that time,” declares the Lord. <br/>  “I will put my law in their minds <br/>   and write it on their hearts. <br/>  I will be their God, <br/>   and they will be my people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_34">  <sup>34</sup>No longer will they teach their neighbor, <br/>   or say to one another, ‘Know the Lord,’ <br/>  because they will all know me, <br/>   from the least of them to the greatest,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>  “For I will forgive their wickedness <br/>   and will remember their sins no more.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_35"> <sup>35</sup>This is what the Lord says, <br/>  he who appoints the sun <br/>   to shine by day, <br/>  who decrees the moon and stars <br/>   to shine by night, <br/>  who stirs up the sea <br/>   so that its waves roar— <br/>   the Lord Almighty is his name: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_36">  <sup>36</sup>“Only if these decrees vanish from my sight,” <br/>   declares the Lord, <br/>  “will Israel ever cease <br/>   being a nation before me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_37"> <sup>37</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “Only if the heavens above can be measured <br/>   and the foundations of the earth below be searched out <br/>  will I reject all the descendants of Israel <br/>   because of all they have done,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_31_38"> <sup>38</sup>“The days are coming,” declares the Lord, “when this city will be rebuilt for me from the Tower of Hananel to the Corner Gate. </span>
<span class="verse gie_31_39"><sup>39</sup>The measuring line will stretch from there straight to the hill of Gareb and then turn to Goah. </span>
<span class="verse gie_31_40"><sup>40</sup>The whole valley where dead bodies and ashes are thrown, and all the terraces out to the Kidron Valley on the east as far as the corner of the Horse Gate, will be holy to the Lord. The city will never again be uprooted or demolished.” <br/></span>
