---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\34.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>34</h1><h3>Warning to Zedekiah </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_34_1"> <sup>1</sup>While Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army and all the kingdoms and peoples in the empire he ruled were fighting against Jerusalem and all its surrounding towns, this word came to Jeremiah from the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_2"><sup>2</sup>“This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: Go to Zedekiah king of Judah and tell him, ‘This is what the Lord says: I am about to give this city into the hands of the king of Babylon, and he will burn it down. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_3"><sup>3</sup>You will not escape from his grasp but will surely be captured and given into his hands. You will see the king of Babylon with your own eyes, and he will speak with you face to face. And you will go to Babylon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_34_4"> <sup>4</sup>“ ‘Yet hear the Lord’s promise to you, Zedekiah king of Judah. This is what the Lord says concerning you: You will not die by the sword; </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_5"><sup>5</sup>you will die peacefully. As people made a funeral fire in honor of your predecessors, the kings who ruled before you, so they will make a fire in your honor and lament, “Alas, master!” I myself make this promise, declares the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_34_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then Jeremiah the prophet told all this to Zedekiah king of Judah, in Jerusalem, </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_7"><sup>7</sup>while the army of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem and the other cities of Judah that were still holding out—Lachish and Azekah. These were the only fortified cities left in Judah. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Freedom for Slaves </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_34_8"> <sup>8</sup>The word came to Jeremiah from the Lord after King Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people in Jerusalem to proclaim freedom for the slaves. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_9"><sup>9</sup>Everyone was to free their Hebrew slaves, both male and female; no one was to hold a fellow Hebrew in bondage. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_10"><sup>10</sup>So all the officials and people who entered into this covenant agreed that they would free their male and female slaves and no longer hold them in bondage. They agreed, and set them free. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_11"><sup>11</sup>But afterward they changed their minds and took back the slaves they had freed and enslaved them again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_34_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah: </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_13"><sup>13</sup>“This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: I made a covenant with your ancestors when I brought them out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. I said, </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_14"><sup>14</sup>‘Every seventh year each of you must free any fellow Hebrews who have sold themselves to you. After they have served you six years, you must let them go free.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 15:12">⚓</a> Your ancestors, however, did not listen to me or pay attention to me. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_15"><sup>15</sup>Recently you repented and did what is right in my sight: Each of you proclaimed freedom to your own people. You even made a covenant before me in the house that bears my Name. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_16"><sup>16</sup>But now you have turned around and profaned my name; each of you has taken back the male and female slaves you had set free to go where they wished. You have forced them to become your slaves again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_34_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Therefore this is what the Lord says: You have not obeyed me; you have not proclaimed freedom to your own people. So I now proclaim ‘freedom’ for you, declares the Lord—‘freedom’ to fall by the sword, plague and famine. I will make you abhorrent to all the kingdoms of the earth. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_18"><sup>18</sup>Those who have violated my covenant and have not fulfilled the terms of the covenant they made before me, I will treat like the calf they cut in two and then walked between its pieces. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_19"><sup>19</sup>The leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, the court officials, the priests and all the people of the land who walked between the pieces of the calf, </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_20"><sup>20</sup>I will deliver into the hands of their enemies who want to kill them. Their dead bodies will become food for the birds and the wild animals. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_34_21"> <sup>21</sup>“I will deliver Zedekiah king of Judah and his officials into the hands of their enemies who want to kill them, to the army of the king of Babylon, which has withdrawn from you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_34_22"><sup>22</sup>I am going to give the order, declares the Lord, and I will bring them back to this city. They will fight against it, take it and burn it down. And I will lay waste the towns of Judah so no one can live there.” <br/></span>
