---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\35.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>35</h1><h3>The Rekabites </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_35_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord during the reign of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah: </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_2"><sup>2</sup>“Go to the Rekabite family and invite them to come to one of the side rooms of the house of the Lord and give them wine to drink.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_35_3"> <sup>3</sup>So I went to get Jaazaniah son of Jeremiah, the son of Habazziniah, and his brothers and all his sons—the whole family of the Rekabites. </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_4"><sup>4</sup>I brought them into the house of the Lord, into the room of the sons of Hanan son of Igdaliah the man of God. It was next to the room of the officials, which was over that of Maaseiah son of Shallum the doorkeeper. </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_5"><sup>5</sup>Then I set bowls full of wine and some cups before the Rekabites and said to them, “Drink some wine.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_35_6"> <sup>6</sup>But they replied, “We do not drink wine, because our forefather Jehonadab<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jonadab , a variant of Jehonadab ; here and often in this chapter">⚓</a> son of Rekab gave us this command: ‘Neither you nor your descendants must ever drink wine. </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_7"><sup>7</sup>Also you must never build houses, sow seed or plant vineyards; you must never have any of these things, but must always live in tents. Then you will live a long time in the land where you are nomads.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_8"><sup>8</sup>We have obeyed everything our forefather Jehonadab son of Rekab commanded us. Neither we nor our wives nor our sons and daughters have ever drunk wine </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_9"><sup>9</sup>or built houses to live in or had vineyards, fields or crops. </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_10"><sup>10</sup>We have lived in tents and have fully obeyed everything our forefather Jehonadab commanded us. </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_11"><sup>11</sup>But when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon invaded this land, we said, ‘Come, we must go to Jerusalem to escape the Babylonian<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldean">⚓</a> and Aramean armies.’ So we have remained in Jerusalem.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_35_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, saying: </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_13"><sup>13</sup>“This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: Go and tell the people of Judah and those living in Jerusalem, ‘Will you not learn a lesson and obey my words?’ declares the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_14"><sup>14</sup>‘Jehonadab son of Rekab ordered his descendants not to drink wine and this command has been kept. To this day they do not drink wine, because they obey their forefather’s command. But I have spoken to you again and again, yet you have not obeyed me. </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_15"><sup>15</sup>Again and again I sent all my servants the prophets to you. They said, “Each of you must turn from your wicked ways and reform your actions; do not follow other gods to serve them. Then you will live in the land I have given to you and your ancestors.” But you have not paid attention or listened to me. </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_16"><sup>16</sup>The descendants of Jehonadab son of Rekab have carried out the command their forefather gave them, but these people have not obeyed me.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_35_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Therefore this is what the Lord God Almighty, the God of Israel, says: ‘Listen! I am going to bring on Judah and on everyone living in Jerusalem every disaster I pronounced against them. I spoke to them, but they did not listen; I called to them, but they did not answer.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_35_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Jeremiah said to the family of the Rekabites, “This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: ‘You have obeyed the command of your forefather Jehonadab and have followed all his instructions and have done everything he ordered.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_35_19"><sup>19</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: ‘Jehonadab son of Rekab will never fail to have a descendant to serve me.’ ” <br/></span>
