---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\37.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>37</h1><h3>Jeremiah in Prison </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_37_1"> <sup>1</sup>Zedekiah son of Josiah was made king of Judah by Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; he reigned in place of Jehoiachin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Koniah, a variant of Jehoiachin">⚓</a> son of Jehoiakim. </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_2"><sup>2</sup>Neither he nor his attendants nor the people of the land paid any attention to the words the Lord had spoken through Jeremiah the prophet. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_3"> <sup>3</sup>King Zedekiah, however, sent Jehukal son of Shelemiah with the priest Zephaniah son of Maaseiah to Jeremiah the prophet with this message: “Please pray to the Lord our God for us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_4"> <sup>4</sup>Now Jeremiah was free to come and go among the people, for he had not yet been put in prison. </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_5"><sup>5</sup>Pharaoh’s army had marched out of Egypt, and when the Babylonians<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans ; also in verses 8, 9, 13 and 14">⚓</a> who were besieging Jerusalem heard the report about them, they withdrew from Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet: </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_7"><sup>7</sup>“This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: Tell the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of me, ‘Pharaoh’s army, which has marched out to support you, will go back to its own land, to Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_8"><sup>8</sup>Then the Babylonians will return and attack this city; they will capture it and burn it down.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_9"> <sup>9</sup>“This is what the Lord says: Do not deceive yourselves, thinking, ‘The Babylonians will surely leave us.’ They will not! </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_10"><sup>10</sup>Even if you were to defeat the entire Babylonian<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldean ; also in verse 11">⚓</a> army that is attacking you and only wounded men were left in their tents, they would come out and burn this city down.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_11"> <sup>11</sup>After the Babylonian army had withdrawn from Jerusalem because of Pharaoh’s army, </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_12"><sup>12</sup>Jeremiah started to leave the city to go to the territory of Benjamin to get his share of the property among the people there. </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_13"><sup>13</sup>But when he reached the Benjamin Gate, the captain of the guard, whose name was Irijah son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah, arrested him and said, “You are deserting to the Babylonians!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_14"> <sup>14</sup>“That’s not true!” Jeremiah said. “I am not deserting to the Babylonians.” But Irijah would not listen to him; instead, he arrested Jeremiah and brought him to the officials. </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_15"><sup>15</sup>They were angry with Jeremiah and had him beaten and imprisoned in the house of Jonathan the secretary, which they had made into a prison. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_16"> <sup>16</sup>Jeremiah was put into a vaulted cell in a dungeon, where he remained a long time. </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_17"><sup>17</sup>Then King Zedekiah sent for him and had him brought to the palace, where he asked him privately, “Is there any word from the Lord?” <br/> “Yes,” Jeremiah replied, “you will be delivered into the hands of the king of Babylon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Jeremiah said to King Zedekiah, “What crime have I committed against you or your attendants or this people, that you have put me in prison? </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_19"><sup>19</sup>Where are your prophets who prophesied to you, ‘The king of Babylon will not attack you or this land’? </span>
<span class="verse gie_37_20"><sup>20</sup>But now, my lord the king, please listen. Let me bring my petition before you: Do not send me back to the house of Jonathan the secretary, or I will die there.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_37_21"> <sup>21</sup>King Zedekiah then gave orders for Jeremiah to be placed in the courtyard of the guard and given a loaf of bread from the street of the bakers each day until all the bread in the city was gone. So Jeremiah remained in the courtyard of the guard. <br/></span>
