---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\39.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>39</h1><h3>The Fall of Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_39_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon marched against Jerusalem with his whole army and laid siege to it. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_2"><sup>2</sup>And on the ninth day of the fourth month of Zedekiah’s eleventh year, the city wall was broken through. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_3"><sup>3</sup>Then all the officials of the king of Babylon came and took seats in the Middle Gate: Nergal-Sharezer of Samgar, Nebo-Sarsekim a chief officer, Nergal-Sharezer a high official and all the other officials of the king of Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_4"><sup>4</sup>When Zedekiah king of Judah and all the soldiers saw them, they fled; they left the city at night by way of the king’s garden, through the gate between the two walls, and headed toward the Arabah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Jordan Valley">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_39_5"> <sup>5</sup>But the Babylonian<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldean">⚓</a> army pursued them and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. They captured him and took him to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, where he pronounced sentence on him. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_6"><sup>6</sup>There at Riblah the king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes and also killed all the nobles of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_7"><sup>7</sup>Then he put out Zedekiah’s eyes and bound him with bronze shackles to take him to Babylon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_39_8"> <sup>8</sup>The Babylonians<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a> set fire to the royal palace and the houses of the people and broke down the walls of Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_9"><sup>9</sup>Nebuzaradan commander of the imperial guard carried into exile to Babylon the people who remained in the city, along with those who had gone over to him, and the rest of the people. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_10"><sup>10</sup>But Nebuzaradan the commander of the guard left behind in the land of Judah some of the poor people, who owned nothing; and at that time he gave them vineyards and fields. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_39_11"> <sup>11</sup>Now Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had given these orders about Jeremiah through Nebuzaradan commander of the imperial guard: </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_12"><sup>12</sup>“Take him and look after him; don’t harm him but do for him whatever he asks.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_13"><sup>13</sup>So Nebuzaradan the commander of the guard, Nebushazban a chief officer, Nergal-Sharezer a high official and all the other officers of the king of Babylon </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_14"><sup>14</sup>sent and had Jeremiah taken out of the courtyard of the guard. They turned him over to Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, to take him back to his home. So he remained among his own people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_39_15"> <sup>15</sup>While Jeremiah had been confined in the courtyard of the guard, the word of the Lord came to him: </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_16"><sup>16</sup>“Go and tell Ebed-Melek the Cushite, ‘This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: I am about to fulfill my words against this city—words concerning disaster, not prosperity. At that time they will be fulfilled before your eyes. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_17"><sup>17</sup>But I will rescue you on that day, declares the Lord; you will not be given into the hands of those you fear. </span>
<span class="verse gie_39_18"><sup>18</sup>I will save you; you will not fall by the sword but will escape with your life, because you trust in me, declares the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
