---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\40.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>40</h1><h3>Jeremiah Freed </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_40_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word came to Jeremiah from the Lord after Nebuzaradan commander of the imperial guard had released him at Ramah. He had found Jeremiah bound in chains among all the captives from Jerusalem and Judah who were being carried into exile to Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_2"><sup>2</sup>When the commander of the guard found Jeremiah, he said to him, “The Lord your God decreed this disaster for this place. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_3"><sup>3</sup>And now the Lord has brought it about; he has done just as he said he would. All this happened because you people sinned against the Lord and did not obey him. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_4"><sup>4</sup>But today I am freeing you from the chains on your wrists. Come with me to Babylon, if you like, and I will look after you; but if you do not want to, then don’t come. Look, the whole country lies before you; go wherever you please.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_5"><sup>5</sup>However, before Jeremiah turned to go,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Jeremiah answered">⚓</a> Nebuzaradan added, “Go back to Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon has appointed over the towns of Judah, and live with him among the people, or go anywhere else you please.” <br/> Then the commander gave him provisions and a present and let him go. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_6"><sup>6</sup>So Jeremiah went to Gedaliah son of Ahikam at Mizpah and stayed with him among the people who were left behind in the land. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Gedaliah Assassinated </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_40_7"> <sup>7</sup>When all the army officers and their men who were still in the open country heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah son of Ahikam as governor over the land and had put him in charge of the men, women and children who were the poorest in the land and who had not been carried into exile to Babylon, </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_8"><sup>8</sup>they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah—Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jezaniah, a variant of Jaazaniah">⚓</a> the son of the Maakathite, and their men. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_9"><sup>9</sup>Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, took an oath to reassure them and their men. “Do not be afraid to serve the Babylonians,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans ; also in verse 10">⚓</a> ” he said. “Settle down in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it will go well with you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_10"><sup>10</sup>I myself will stay at Mizpah to represent you before the Babylonians who come to us, but you are to harvest the wine, summer fruit and olive oil, and put them in your storage jars, and live in the towns you have taken over.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_11"> <sup>11</sup>When all the Jews in Moab, Ammon, Edom and all the other countries heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant in Judah and had appointed Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, as governor over them, </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_12"><sup>12</sup>they all came back to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah, from all the countries where they had been scattered. And they harvested an abundance of wine and summer fruit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_13"> <sup>13</sup>Johanan son of Kareah and all the army officers still in the open country came to Gedaliah at Mizpah </span>
<span class="verse gie_40_14"><sup>14</sup>and said to him, “Don’t you know that Baalis king of the Ammonites has sent Ishmael son of Nethaniah to take your life?” But Gedaliah son of Ahikam did not believe them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Johanan son of Kareah said privately to Gedaliah in Mizpah, “Let me go and kill Ishmael son of Nethaniah, and no one will know it. Why should he take your life and cause all the Jews who are gathered around you to be scattered and the remnant of Judah to perish?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_40_16"> <sup>16</sup>But Gedaliah son of Ahikam said to Johanan son of Kareah, “Don’t do such a thing! What you are saying about Ishmael is not true.” <br/></span>
