---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\42.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>42</h1><h3>Flight to Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_42_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then all the army officers, including Johanan son of Kareah and Jezaniah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint (see also 43:2) Azariah">⚓</a> son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least to the greatest approached </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_2"><sup>2</sup>Jeremiah the prophet and said to him, “Please hear our petition and pray to the Lord your God for this entire remnant. For as you now see, though we were once many, now only a few are left. </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_3"><sup>3</sup>Pray that the Lord your God will tell us where we should go and what we should do.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_42_4"> <sup>4</sup>“I have heard you,” replied Jeremiah the prophet. “I will certainly pray to the Lord your God as you have requested; I will tell you everything the Lord says and will keep nothing back from you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_42_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then they said to Jeremiah, “May the Lord be a true and faithful witness against us if we do not act in accordance with everything the Lord your God sends you to tell us. </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_6"><sup>6</sup>Whether it is favorable or unfavorable, we will obey the Lord our God, to whom we are sending you, so that it will go well with us, for we will obey the Lord our God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_42_7"> <sup>7</sup>Ten days later the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_8"><sup>8</sup>So he called together Johanan son of Kareah and all the army officers who were with him and all the people from the least to the greatest. </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_9"><sup>9</sup>He said to them, “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your petition, says: </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_10"><sup>10</sup>‘If you stay in this land, I will build you up and not tear you down; I will plant you and not uproot you, for I have relented concerning the disaster I have inflicted on you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_11"><sup>11</sup>Do not be afraid of the king of Babylon, whom you now fear. Do not be afraid of him, declares the Lord, for I am with you and will save you and deliver you from his hands. </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_12"><sup>12</sup>I will show you compassion so that he will have compassion on you and restore you to your land.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_42_13"> <sup>13</sup>“However, if you say, ‘We will not stay in this land,’ and so disobey the Lord your God, </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_14"><sup>14</sup>and if you say, ‘No, we will go and live in Egypt, where we will not see war or hear the trumpet or be hungry for bread,’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_15"><sup>15</sup>then hear the word of the Lord, you remnant of Judah. This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: ‘If you are determined to go to Egypt and you do go to settle there, </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_16"><sup>16</sup>then the sword you fear will overtake you there, and the famine you dread will follow you into Egypt, and there you will die. </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_17"><sup>17</sup>Indeed, all who are determined to go to Egypt to settle there will die by the sword, famine and plague; not one of them will survive or escape the disaster I will bring on them.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_18"><sup>18</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: ‘As my anger and wrath have been poured out on those who lived in Jerusalem, so will my wrath be poured out on you when you go to Egypt. You will be a curse<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, your name will be used in cursing (see 29:22); or, others will see that you are cursed.">⚓</a> and an object of horror, a curse<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, your name will be used in cursing (see 29:22); or, others will see that you are cursed.">⚓</a> and an object of reproach; you will never see this place again.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_42_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Remnant of Judah, the Lord has told you, ‘Do not go to Egypt.’ Be sure of this: I warn you today </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_20"><sup>20</sup>that you made a fatal mistake when you sent me to the Lord your God and said, ‘Pray to the Lord our God for us; tell us everything he says and we will do it.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_21"><sup>21</sup>I have told you today, but you still have not obeyed the Lord your God in all he sent me to tell you. </span>
<span class="verse gie_42_22"><sup>22</sup>So now, be sure of this: You will die by the sword, famine and plague in the place where you want to go to settle.” <br/></span>
