---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\43.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>43</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_43_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Jeremiah had finished telling the people all the words of the Lord their God—everything the Lord had sent him to tell them— </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_2"><sup>2</sup>Azariah son of Hoshaiah and Johanan son of Kareah and all the arrogant men said to Jeremiah, “You are lying! The Lord our God has not sent you to say, ‘You must not go to Egypt to settle there.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_3"><sup>3</sup>But Baruch son of Neriah is inciting you against us to hand us over to the Babylonians,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a> so they may kill us or carry us into exile to Babylon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_43_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Johanan son of Kareah and all the army officers and all the people disobeyed the Lord’s command to stay in the land of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_5"><sup>5</sup>Instead, Johanan son of Kareah and all the army officers led away all the remnant of Judah who had come back to live in the land of Judah from all the nations where they had been scattered. </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_6"><sup>6</sup>They also led away all those whom Nebuzaradan commander of the imperial guard had left with Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan—the men, the women, the children and the king’s daughters. And they took Jeremiah the prophet and Baruch son of Neriah along with them. </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_7"><sup>7</sup>So they entered Egypt in disobedience to the Lord and went as far as Tahpanhes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_43_8"> <sup>8</sup>In Tahpanhes the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah: </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_9"><sup>9</sup>“While the Jews are watching, take some large stones with you and bury them in clay in the brick pavement at the entrance to Pharaoh’s palace in Tahpanhes. </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_10"><sup>10</sup>Then say to them, ‘This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: I will send for my servant Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and I will set his throne over these stones I have buried here; he will spread his royal canopy above them. </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_11"><sup>11</sup>He will come and attack Egypt, bringing death to those destined for death, captivity to those destined for captivity, and the sword to those destined for the sword. </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_12"><sup>12</sup>He will set fire to the temples of the gods of Egypt; he will burn their temples and take their gods captive. As a shepherd picks his garment clean of lice, so he will pick Egypt clean and depart. </span>
<span class="verse gie_43_13"><sup>13</sup>There in the temple of the sun<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in Heliopolis">⚓</a> in Egypt he will demolish the sacred pillars and will burn down the temples of the gods of Egypt.’ ” <br/></span>
