---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\44.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>44</h1><h3>Disaster Because of Idolatry </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_44_1"> <sup>1</sup>This word came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews living in Lower Egypt—in Migdol, Tahpanhes and Memphis—and in Upper Egypt: </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_2"><sup>2</sup>“This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: You saw the great disaster I brought on Jerusalem and on all the towns of Judah. Today they lie deserted and in ruins </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_3"><sup>3</sup>because of the evil they have done. They aroused my anger by burning incense to and worshiping other gods that neither they nor you nor your ancestors ever knew. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_4"><sup>4</sup>Again and again I sent my servants the prophets, who said, ‘Do not do this detestable thing that I hate!’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_5"><sup>5</sup>But they did not listen or pay attention; they did not turn from their wickedness or stop burning incense to other gods. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_6"><sup>6</sup>Therefore, my fierce anger was poured out; it raged against the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem and made them the desolate ruins they are today. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_44_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Now this is what the Lord God Almighty, the God of Israel, says: Why bring such great disaster on yourselves by cutting off from Judah the men and women, the children and infants, and so leave yourselves without a remnant? </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_8"><sup>8</sup>Why arouse my anger with what your hands have made, burning incense to other gods in Egypt, where you have come to live? You will destroy yourselves and make yourselves a curse<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, your name will be used in cursing (see 29:22); or, others will see that you are cursed; also in verse 12; similarly in verse 22.">⚓</a> and an object of reproach among all the nations on earth. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_9"><sup>9</sup>Have you forgotten the wickedness committed by your ancestors and by the kings and queens of Judah and the wickedness committed by you and your wives in the land of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem? </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_10"><sup>10</sup>To this day they have not humbled themselves or shown reverence, nor have they followed my law and the decrees I set before you and your ancestors. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_44_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Therefore this is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: I am determined to bring disaster on you and to destroy all Judah. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_12"><sup>12</sup>I will take away the remnant of Judah who were determined to go to Egypt to settle there. They will all perish in Egypt; they will fall by the sword or die from famine. From the least to the greatest, they will die by sword or famine. They will become a curse and an object of horror, a curse and an object of reproach. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_13"><sup>13</sup>I will punish those who live in Egypt with the sword, famine and plague, as I punished Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_14"><sup>14</sup>None of the remnant of Judah who have gone to live in Egypt will escape or survive to return to the land of Judah, to which they long to return and live; none will return except a few fugitives.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_44_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then all the men who knew that their wives were burning incense to other gods, along with all the women who were present—a large assembly—and all the people living in Lower and Upper Egypt, said to Jeremiah, </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_16"><sup>16</sup>“We will not listen to the message you have spoken to us in the name of the Lord! </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_17"><sup>17</sup>We will certainly do everything we said we would: We will burn incense to the Queen of Heaven and will pour out drink offerings to her just as we and our ancestors, our kings and our officials did in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. At that time we had plenty of food and were well off and suffered no harm. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_18"><sup>18</sup>But ever since we stopped burning incense to the Queen of Heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have had nothing and have been perishing by sword and famine.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_44_19"> <sup>19</sup>The women added, “When we burned incense to the Queen of Heaven and poured out drink offerings to her, did not our husbands know that we were making cakes impressed with her image and pouring out drink offerings to her?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_44_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then Jeremiah said to all the people, both men and women, who were answering him, </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_21"><sup>21</sup>“Did not the Lord remember and call to mind the incense burned in the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem by you and your ancestors, your kings and your officials and the people of the land? </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_22"><sup>22</sup>When the Lord could no longer endure your wicked actions and the detestable things you did, your land became a curse and a desolate waste without inhabitants, as it is today. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_23"><sup>23</sup>Because you have burned incense and have sinned against the Lord and have not obeyed him or followed his law or his decrees or his stipulations, this disaster has come upon you, as you now see.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_44_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then Jeremiah said to all the people, including the women, “Hear the word of the Lord, all you people of Judah in Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_25"><sup>25</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: You and your wives have done what you said you would do when you promised, ‘We will certainly carry out the vows we made to burn incense and pour out drink offerings to the Queen of Heaven.’ <br/> “Go ahead then, do what you promised! Keep your vows! </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_26"><sup>26</sup>But hear the word of the Lord, all you Jews living in Egypt: ‘I swear by my great name,’ says the Lord, ‘that no one from Judah living anywhere in Egypt will ever again invoke my name or swear, “As surely as the Sovereign Lord lives.” </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_27"><sup>27</sup>For I am watching over them for harm, not for good; the Jews in Egypt will perish by sword and famine until they are all destroyed. </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_28"><sup>28</sup>Those who escape the sword and return to the land of Judah from Egypt will be very few. Then the whole remnant of Judah who came to live in Egypt will know whose word will stand—mine or theirs. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_44_29"> <sup>29</sup>“ ‘This will be the sign to you that I will punish you in this place,’ declares the Lord, ‘so that you will know that my threats of harm against you will surely stand.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_44_30"><sup>30</sup>This is what the Lord says: ‘I am going to deliver Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt into the hands of his enemies who want to kill him, just as I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the enemy who wanted to kill him.’ ” <br/></span>
