---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\50.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>50</h1><h3>A Message About Babylon </h3></div>
<span class="verse gie_50_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is the word the Lord spoke through Jeremiah the prophet concerning Babylon and the land of the Babylonians<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans ; also in verses 8, 25, 35 and 45">⚓</a> : <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_2">  <sup>2</sup>“Announce and proclaim among the nations, <br/>   lift up a banner and proclaim it; <br/>   keep nothing back, but say, <br/>  ‘Babylon will be captured; <br/>   Bel will be put to shame, <br/>   Marduk filled with terror. <br/>  Her images will be put to shame <br/>   and her idols filled with terror.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_3">  <sup>3</sup>A nation from the north will attack her <br/>   and lay waste her land. <br/>  No one will live in it; <br/>   both people and animals will flee away. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_4">  <sup>4</sup>“In those days, at that time,” <br/>   declares the Lord, <br/>  “the people of Israel and the people of Judah together <br/>   will go in tears to seek the Lord their God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_5">  <sup>5</sup>They will ask the way to Zion <br/>   and turn their faces toward it. <br/>  They will come and bind themselves to the Lord<br/>   in an everlasting covenant <br/>   that will not be forgotten. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_6">  <sup>6</sup>“My people have been lost sheep; <br/>   their shepherds have led them astray <br/>   and caused them to roam on the mountains. <br/>  They wandered over mountain and hill <br/>   and forgot their own resting place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_7">  <sup>7</sup>Whoever found them devoured them; <br/>   their enemies said, ‘We are not guilty, <br/>  for they sinned against the Lord, their verdant pasture, <br/>   the Lord, the hope of their ancestors.’ <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_8">  <sup>8</sup>“Flee out of Babylon; <br/>   leave the land of the Babylonians, <br/>   and be like the goats that lead the flock. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_9">  <sup>9</sup>For I will stir up and bring against Babylon <br/>   an alliance of great nations from the land of the north. <br/>  They will take up their positions against her, <br/>   and from the north she will be captured. <br/>  Their arrows will be like skilled warriors <br/>   who do not return empty-handed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_10">  <sup>10</sup>So Babylonia<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldea">⚓</a> will be plundered; <br/>   all who plunder her will have their fill,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_11">  <sup>11</sup>“Because you rejoice and are glad, <br/>   you who pillage my inheritance, <br/>  because you frolic like a heifer threshing grain <br/>   and neigh like stallions, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_12">  <sup>12</sup>your mother will be greatly ashamed; <br/>   she who gave you birth will be disgraced. <br/>  She will be the least of the nations— <br/>   a wilderness, a dry land, a desert. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_13">  <sup>13</sup>Because of the Lord’s anger she will not be inhabited <br/>   but will be completely desolate. <br/>  All who pass Babylon will be appalled; <br/>   they will scoff because of all her wounds. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_14">  <sup>14</sup>“Take up your positions around Babylon, <br/>   all you who draw the bow. <br/>  Shoot at her! Spare no arrows, <br/>   for she has sinned against the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_15">  <sup>15</sup>Shout against her on every side! <br/>   She surrenders, her towers fall, <br/>   her walls are torn down. <br/>  Since this is the vengeance of the Lord, <br/>   take vengeance on her; <br/>   do to her as she has done to others. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_16">  <sup>16</sup>Cut off from Babylon the sower, <br/>   and the reaper with his sickle at harvest. <br/>  Because of the sword of the oppressor <br/>   let everyone return to their own people, <br/>   let everyone flee to their own land. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_17">  <sup>17</sup>“Israel is a scattered flock <br/>   that lions have chased away. <br/>  The first to devour them <br/>   was the king of Assyria; <br/>  the last to crush their bones <br/>   was Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_18"> <sup>18</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: <br/>  “I will punish the king of Babylon and his land <br/>   as I punished the king of Assyria. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_19">  <sup>19</sup>But I will bring Israel back to their own pasture, <br/>   and they will graze on Carmel and Bashan; <br/>  their appetite will be satisfied <br/>   on the hills of Ephraim and Gilead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_20">  <sup>20</sup>In those days, at that time,” <br/>   declares the Lord, <br/>  “search will be made for Israel’s guilt, <br/>   but there will be none, <br/>  and for the sins of Judah, <br/>   but none will be found, <br/>   for I will forgive the remnant I spare. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_21">  <sup>21</sup>“Attack the land of Merathaim <br/>   and those who live in Pekod. <br/>  Pursue, kill and completely destroy<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them; also in verse 26.">⚓</a> them,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>   “Do everything I have commanded you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_22">  <sup>22</sup>The noise of battle is in the land, <br/>   the noise of great destruction! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_23">  <sup>23</sup>How broken and shattered <br/>   is the hammer of the whole earth! <br/>  How desolate is Babylon <br/>   among the nations! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_24">  <sup>24</sup>I set a trap for you, Babylon, <br/>   and you were caught before you knew it; <br/>  you were found and captured <br/>   because you opposed the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_25">  <sup>25</sup>The Lord has opened his arsenal <br/>   and brought out the weapons of his wrath, <br/>  for the Sovereign Lord Almighty has work to do <br/>   in the land of the Babylonians. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_26">  <sup>26</sup>Come against her from afar. <br/>   Break open her granaries; <br/>   pile her up like heaps of grain. <br/>  Completely destroy her <br/>   and leave her no remnant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_27">  <sup>27</sup>Kill all her young bulls; <br/>   let them go down to the slaughter! <br/>  Woe to them! For their day has come, <br/>   the time for them to be punished. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_28">  <sup>28</sup>Listen to the fugitives and refugees from Babylon <br/>   declaring in Zion <br/>  how the Lord our God has taken vengeance, <br/>   vengeance for his temple. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_29">  <sup>29</sup>“Summon archers against Babylon, <br/>   all those who draw the bow. <br/>  Encamp all around her; <br/>   let no one escape. <br/>  Repay her for her deeds; <br/>   do to her as she has done. <br/>  For she has defied the Lord, <br/>   the Holy One of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_30">  <sup>30</sup>Therefore, her young men will fall in the streets; <br/>   all her soldiers will be silenced in that day,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_31">  <sup>31</sup>“See, I am against you, you arrogant one,” <br/>   declares the Lord, the Lord Almighty, <br/>  “for your day has come, <br/>   the time for you to be punished. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_32">  <sup>32</sup>The arrogant one will stumble and fall <br/>   and no one will help her up; <br/>  I will kindle a fire in her towns <br/>   that will consume all who are around her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_33"> <sup>33</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: <br/>  “The people of Israel are oppressed, <br/>   and the people of Judah as well. <br/>  All their captors hold them fast, <br/>   refusing to let them go. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_34">  <sup>34</sup>Yet their Redeemer is strong; <br/>   the Lord Almighty is his name. <br/>  He will vigorously defend their cause <br/>   so that he may bring rest to their land, <br/>   but unrest to those who live in Babylon. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_35">  <sup>35</sup>“A sword against the Babylonians!” <br/>   declares the Lord— <br/>  “against those who live in Babylon <br/>   and against her officials and wise men! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_36">  <sup>36</sup>A sword against her false prophets! <br/>   They will become fools. <br/>  A sword against her warriors! <br/>   They will be filled with terror. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_37">  <sup>37</sup>A sword against her horses and chariots <br/>   and all the foreigners in her ranks! <br/>   They will become weaklings. <br/>  A sword against her treasures! <br/>   They will be plundered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_38">  <sup>38</sup>A drought on<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or A sword against">⚓</a> her waters! <br/>   They will dry up. <br/>  For it is a land of idols, <br/>   idols that will go mad with terror. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_39">  <sup>39</sup>“So desert creatures and hyenas will live there, <br/>   and there the owl will dwell. <br/>  It will never again be inhabited <br/>   or lived in from generation to generation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_40">  <sup>40</sup>As I overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah <br/>   along with their neighboring towns,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord, </aside><br/>  “so no one will live there; <br/>   no people will dwell in it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_41">  <sup>41</sup>“Look! An army is coming from the north; <br/>   a great nation and many kings <br/>   are being stirred up from the ends of the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_42">  <sup>42</sup>They are armed with bows and spears; <br/>   they are cruel and without mercy. <br/>  They sound like the roaring sea <br/>   as they ride on their horses; <br/>  they come like men in battle formation <br/>   to attack you, Daughter Babylon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_43">  <sup>43</sup>The king of Babylon has heard reports about them, <br/>   and his hands hang limp. <br/>  Anguish has gripped him, <br/>   pain like that of a woman in labor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_44">  <sup>44</sup>Like a lion coming up from Jordan’s thickets <br/>   to a rich pastureland, <br/>  I will chase Babylon from its land in an instant. <br/>   Who is the chosen one I will appoint for this? <br/>  Who is like me and who can challenge me? <br/>   And what shepherd can stand against me?” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_45">  <sup>45</sup>Therefore, hear what the Lord has planned against Babylon, <br/>   what he has purposed against the land of the Babylonians: <br/>  The young of the flock will be dragged away; <br/>   their pasture will be appalled at their fate. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_50_46">  <sup>46</sup>At the sound of Babylon’s capture the earth will tremble; <br/>   its cry will resound among the nations. <br/></span>
