---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Jeremiah 
bookNumber: 24
audio: \Audio\NIV\gie\51.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>51</h1></div>
<span class="verse gie_51_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “See, I will stir up the spirit of a destroyer <br/>   against Babylon and the people of Leb Kamai.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="is a cryptogram for Chaldea, that is, Babylonia.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_2">  <sup>2</sup>I will send foreigners to Babylon <br/>   to winnow her and to devastate her land; <br/>  they will oppose her on every side <br/>   in the day of her disaster. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_3">  <sup>3</sup>Let not the archer string his bow, <br/>   nor let him put on his armor. <br/>  Do not spare her young men; <br/>   completely destroy<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them.">⚓</a> her army. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_4">  <sup>4</sup>They will fall down slain in Babylon,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldea">⚓</a><br/>   fatally wounded in her streets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_5">  <sup>5</sup>For Israel and Judah have not been forsaken <br/>   by their God, the Lord Almighty, <br/>  though their land<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Almighty, / and the land of the Babylonians">⚓</a> is full of guilt <br/>   before the Holy One of Israel. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_6">  <sup>6</sup>“Flee from Babylon! <br/>   Run for your lives! <br/>   Do not be destroyed because of her sins. <br/>  It is time for the Lord’s vengeance; <br/>   he will repay her what she deserves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_7">  <sup>7</sup>Babylon was a gold cup in the Lord’s hand; <br/>   she made the whole earth drunk. <br/>  The nations drank her wine; <br/>   therefore they have now gone mad. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_8">  <sup>8</sup>Babylon will suddenly fall and be broken. <br/>   Wail over her! <br/>  Get balm for her pain; <br/>   perhaps she can be healed. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_9">  <sup>9</sup>“ ‘We would have healed Babylon, <br/>   but she cannot be healed; <br/>  let us leave her and each go to our own land, <br/>   for her judgment reaches to the skies, <br/>   it rises as high as the heavens.’ <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_10">  <sup>10</sup>“ ‘The Lord has vindicated us; <br/>   come, let us tell in Zion <br/>   what the Lord our God has done.’ <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_11">  <sup>11</sup>“Sharpen the arrows, <br/>   take up the shields! <br/>  The Lord has stirred up the kings of the Medes, <br/>   because his purpose is to destroy Babylon. <br/>  The Lord will take vengeance, <br/>   vengeance for his temple. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_12">  <sup>12</sup>Lift up a banner against the walls of Babylon! <br/>   Reinforce the guard, <br/>  station the watchmen, <br/>   prepare an ambush! <br/>  The Lord will carry out his purpose, <br/>   his decree against the people of Babylon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_13">  <sup>13</sup>You who live by many waters <br/>   and are rich in treasures, <br/>  your end has come, <br/>   the time for you to be destroyed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_14">  <sup>14</sup>The Lord Almighty has sworn by himself: <br/>   I will surely fill you with troops, as with a swarm of locusts, <br/>   and they will shout in triumph over you. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_15">  <sup>15</sup>“He made the earth by his power; <br/>   he founded the world by his wisdom <br/>   and stretched out the heavens by his understanding. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_16">  <sup>16</sup>When he thunders, the waters in the heavens roar; <br/>   he makes clouds rise from the ends of the earth. <br/>  He sends lightning with the rain <br/>   and brings out the wind from his storehouses. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_17">  <sup>17</sup>“Everyone is senseless and without knowledge; <br/>   every goldsmith is shamed by his idols. <br/>  The images he makes are a fraud; <br/>   they have no breath in them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_18">  <sup>18</sup>They are worthless, the objects of mockery; <br/>   when their judgment comes, they will perish. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_19">  <sup>19</sup>He who is the Portion of Jacob is not like these, <br/>   for he is the Maker of all things, <br/>  including the people of his inheritance— <br/>   the Lord Almighty is his name. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_20">  <sup>20</sup>“You are my war club, <br/>   my weapon for battle— <br/>  with you I shatter nations, <br/>   with you I destroy kingdoms, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_21">  <sup>21</sup>with you I shatter horse and rider, <br/>   with you I shatter chariot and driver, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_22">  <sup>22</sup>with you I shatter man and woman, <br/>   with you I shatter old man and youth, <br/>   with you I shatter young man and young woman, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_23">  <sup>23</sup>with you I shatter shepherd and flock, <br/>   with you I shatter farmer and oxen, <br/>   with you I shatter governors and officials. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_24"> <sup>24</sup>“Before your eyes I will repay Babylon and all who live in Babylonia<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldea ; also in verse 35">⚓</a> for all the wrong they have done in Zion,” declares the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_25">  <sup>25</sup>“I am against you, you destroying mountain, <br/>   you who destroy the whole earth,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/>  “I will stretch out my hand against you, <br/>   roll you off the cliffs, <br/>   and make you a burned-out mountain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_26">  <sup>26</sup>No rock will be taken from you for a cornerstone, <br/>   nor any stone for a foundation, <br/>   for you will be desolate forever,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_27">  <sup>27</sup>“Lift up a banner in the land! <br/>   Blow the trumpet among the nations! <br/>  Prepare the nations for battle against her; <br/>   summon against her these kingdoms: <br/>   Ararat, Minni and Ashkenaz. <br/>  Appoint a commander against her; <br/>   send up horses like a swarm of locusts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_28">  <sup>28</sup>Prepare the nations for battle against her— <br/>   the kings of the Medes, <br/>  their governors and all their officials, <br/>   and all the countries they rule. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_29">  <sup>29</sup>The land trembles and writhes, <br/>   for the Lord’s purposes against Babylon stand— <br/>  to lay waste the land of Babylon <br/>   so that no one will live there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_30">  <sup>30</sup>Babylon’s warriors have stopped fighting; <br/>   they remain in their strongholds. <br/>  Their strength is exhausted; <br/>   they have become weaklings. <br/>  Her dwellings are set on fire; <br/>   the bars of her gates are broken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_31">  <sup>31</sup>One courier follows another <br/>   and messenger follows messenger <br/>  to announce to the king of Babylon <br/>   that his entire city is captured, <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_32">  <sup>32</sup>the river crossings seized, <br/>   the marshes set on fire, <br/>   and the soldiers terrified.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_33"> <sup>33</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says: <br/>  “Daughter Babylon is like a threshing floor <br/>   at the time it is trampled; <br/>   the time to harvest her will soon come.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_34">  <sup>34</sup>“Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has devoured us, <br/>   he has thrown us into confusion, <br/>   he has made us an empty jar. <br/>  Like a serpent he has swallowed us <br/>   and filled his stomach with our delicacies, <br/>   and then has spewed us out. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_35">  <sup>35</sup>May the violence done to our flesh<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or done to us and to our children">⚓</a> be on Babylon,” <br/>   say the inhabitants of Zion. <br/>  “May our blood be on those who live in Babylonia,” <br/>   says Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_36"> <sup>36</sup>Therefore this is what the Lord says: <br/>  “See, I will defend your cause <br/>   and avenge you; <br/>  I will dry up her sea <br/>   and make her springs dry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_37">  <sup>37</sup>Babylon will be a heap of ruins, <br/>   a haunt of jackals, <br/>  an object of horror and scorn, <br/>   a place where no one lives. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_38">  <sup>38</sup>Her people all roar like young lions, <br/>   they growl like lion cubs. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_39">  <sup>39</sup>But while they are aroused, <br/>   I will set out a feast for them <br/>   and make them drunk, <br/>  so that they shout with laughter— <br/>   then sleep forever and not awake,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_40">  <sup>40</sup>“I will bring them down <br/>   like lambs to the slaughter, <br/>   like rams and goats. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_41">  <sup>41</sup>“How Sheshak<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="is a cryptogram for Babylon.">⚓</a> will be captured, <br/>   the boast of the whole earth seized! <br/>  How desolate Babylon will be <br/>   among the nations! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_42">  <sup>42</sup>The sea will rise over Babylon; <br/>   its roaring waves will cover her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_43">  <sup>43</sup>Her towns will be desolate, <br/>   a dry and desert land, <br/>  a land where no one lives, <br/>   through which no one travels. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_44">  <sup>44</sup>I will punish Bel in Babylon <br/>   and make him spew out what he has swallowed. <br/>  The nations will no longer stream to him. <br/>   And the wall of Babylon will fall. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_45">  <sup>45</sup>“Come out of her, my people! <br/>   Run for your lives! <br/>   Run from the fierce anger of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_46">  <sup>46</sup>Do not lose heart or be afraid <br/>   when rumors are heard in the land; <br/>  one rumor comes this year, another the next, <br/>   rumors of violence in the land <br/>   and of ruler against ruler. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_47">  <sup>47</sup>For the time will surely come <br/>   when I will punish the idols of Babylon; <br/>  her whole land will be disgraced <br/>   and her slain will all lie fallen within her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_48">  <sup>48</sup>Then heaven and earth and all that is in them <br/>   will shout for joy over Babylon, <br/>  for out of the north <br/>   destroyers will attack her,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_49">  <sup>49</sup>“Babylon must fall because of Israel’s slain, <br/>   just as the slain in all the earth <br/>   have fallen because of Babylon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_50">  <sup>50</sup>You who have escaped the sword, <br/>   leave and do not linger! <br/>  Remember the Lord in a distant land, <br/>   and call to mind Jerusalem.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_51">  <sup>51</sup>“We are disgraced, <br/>   for we have been insulted <br/>   and shame covers our faces, <br/>  because foreigners have entered <br/>   the holy places of the Lord’s house.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_52">  <sup>52</sup>“But days are coming,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “when I will punish her idols, <br/>  and throughout her land <br/>   the wounded will groan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_53">  <sup>53</sup>Even if Babylon ascends to the heavens <br/>   and fortifies her lofty stronghold, <br/>   I will send destroyers against her,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_54">  <sup>54</sup>“The sound of a cry comes from Babylon, <br/>   the sound of great destruction <br/>   from the land of the Babylonians.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_55">  <sup>55</sup>The Lord will destroy Babylon; <br/>   he will silence her noisy din. <br/>  Waves of enemies will rage like great waters; <br/>   the roar of their voices will resound. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_56">  <sup>56</sup>A destroyer will come against Babylon; <br/>   her warriors will be captured, <br/>   and their bows will be broken. <br/>  For the Lord is a God of retribution; <br/>   he will repay in full. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_57">  <sup>57</sup>I will make her officials and wise men drunk, <br/>   her governors, officers and warriors as well; <br/>  they will sleep forever and not awake,” <br/>   declares the King, whose name is the Lord Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_58"> <sup>58</sup>This is what the Lord Almighty says: <br/>  “Babylon’s thick wall will be leveled <br/>   and her high gates set on fire; <br/>  the peoples exhaust themselves for nothing, <br/>   the nations’ labor is only fuel for the flames.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gie_51_59"> <sup>59</sup>This is the message Jeremiah the prophet gave to the staff officer Seraiah son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, when he went to Babylon with Zedekiah king of Judah in the fourth year of his reign. </span>
<span class="verse gie_51_60"><sup>60</sup>Jeremiah had written on a scroll about all the disasters that would come upon Babylon—all that had been recorded concerning Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse gie_51_61"><sup>61</sup>He said to Seraiah, “When you get to Babylon, see that you read all these words aloud. </span>
<span class="verse gie_51_62"><sup>62</sup>Then say, ‘Lord, you have said you will destroy this place, so that neither people nor animals will live in it; it will be desolate forever.’ </span>
<span class="verse gie_51_63"><sup>63</sup>When you finish reading this scroll, tie a stone to it and throw it into the Euphrates. </span>
<span class="verse gie_51_64"><sup>64</sup>Then say, ‘So will Babylon sink to rise no more because of the disaster I will bring on her. And her people will fall.’ ” <br/> The words of Jeremiah end here. <br/></span>
