---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
audio: \Audio\NIV\da\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Daniel’s Training in Babylon </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it. </span>
<span class="verse da_1_2"><sup>2</sup>And the Lord delivered Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, along with some of the articles from the temple of God. These he carried off to the temple of his god in Babylonia<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Shinar">⚓</a> and put in the treasure house of his god. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then the king ordered Ashpenaz, chief of his court officials, to bring into the king’s service some of the Israelites from the royal family and the nobility— </span>
<span class="verse da_1_4"><sup>4</sup>young men without any physical defect, handsome, showing aptitude for every kind of learning, well informed, quick to understand, and qualified to serve in the king’s palace. He was to teach them the language and literature of the Babylonians.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse da_1_5"><sup>5</sup>The king assigned them a daily amount of food and wine from the king’s table. They were to be trained for three years, and after that they were to enter the king’s service. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>Among those who were chosen were some from Judah: Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah. </span>
<span class="verse da_1_7"><sup>7</sup>The chief official gave them new names: to Daniel, the name Belteshazzar; to Hananiah, Shadrach; to Mishael, Meshach; and to Azariah, Abednego. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>But Daniel resolved not to defile himself with the royal food and wine, and he asked the chief official for permission not to defile himself this way. </span>
<span class="verse da_1_9"><sup>9</sup>Now God had caused the official to show favor and compassion to Daniel, </span>
<span class="verse da_1_10"><sup>10</sup>but the official told Daniel, “I am afraid of my lord the king, who has assigned your<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for your and you in this verse is plural.">⚓</a> food and drink. Why should he see you looking worse than the other young men your age? The king would then have my head because of you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>Daniel then said to the guard whom the chief official had appointed over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah, </span>
<span class="verse da_1_12"><sup>12</sup>“Please test your servants for ten days: Give us nothing but vegetables to eat and water to drink. </span>
<span class="verse da_1_13"><sup>13</sup>Then compare our appearance with that of the young men who eat the royal food, and treat your servants in accordance with what you see.” </span>
<span class="verse da_1_14"><sup>14</sup>So he agreed to this and tested them for ten days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>At the end of the ten days they looked healthier and better nourished than any of the young men who ate the royal food. </span>
<span class="verse da_1_16"><sup>16</sup>So the guard took away their choice food and the wine they were to drink and gave them vegetables instead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>To these four young men God gave knowledge and understanding of all kinds of literature and learning. And Daniel could understand visions and dreams of all kinds. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>At the end of the time set by the king to bring them into his service, the chief official presented them to Nebuchadnezzar. </span>
<span class="verse da_1_19"><sup>19</sup>The king talked with them, and he found none equal to Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah; so they entered the king’s service. </span>
<span class="verse da_1_20"><sup>20</sup>In every matter of wisdom and understanding about which the king questioned them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and enchanters in his whole kingdom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_1_21"> <sup>21</sup>And Daniel remained there until the first year of King Cyrus. <br/></span>
