---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
audio: \Audio\NIV\da\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Nebuchadnezzar’s Dream of a Tree </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>King Nebuchadnezzar, <br/> To the nations and peoples of every language, who live in all the earth: <br/> May you prosper greatly! <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_2"> <sup>2</sup>It is my pleasure to tell you about the miraculous signs and wonders that the Most High God has performed for me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_3">  <sup>3</sup>How great are his signs, <br/>   how mighty his wonders! <br/>  His kingdom is an eternal kingdom; <br/>   his dominion endures from generation to generation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at home in my palace, contented and prosperous. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_5"><sup>5</sup>I had a dream that made me afraid. As I was lying in bed, the images and visions that passed through my mind terrified me. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_6"><sup>6</sup>So I commanded that all the wise men of Babylon be brought before me to interpret the dream for me. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_7"><sup>7</sup>When the magicians, enchanters, astrologers<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a> and diviners came, I told them the dream, but they could not interpret it for me. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_8"><sup>8</sup>Finally, Daniel came into my presence and I told him the dream. (He is called Belteshazzar, after the name of my god, and the spirit of the holy gods is in him.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>I said, “Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians, I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you, and no mystery is too difficult for you. Here is my dream; interpret it for me. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_10"><sup>10</sup>These are the visions I saw while lying in bed: I looked, and there before me stood a tree in the middle of the land. Its height was enormous. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_11"><sup>11</sup>The tree grew large and strong and its top touched the sky; it was visible to the ends of the earth. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_12"><sup>12</sup>Its leaves were beautiful, its fruit abundant, and on it was food for all. Under it the wild animals found shelter, and the birds lived in its branches; from it every creature was fed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>“In the visions I saw while lying in bed, I looked, and there before me was a holy one, a messenger,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or watchman ; also in verses 17 and 23">⚓</a> coming down from heaven. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_14"><sup>14</sup>He called in a loud voice: ‘Cut down the tree and trim off its branches; strip off its leaves and scatter its fruit. Let the animals flee from under it and the birds from its branches. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_15"><sup>15</sup>But let the stump and its roots, bound with iron and bronze, remain in the ground, in the grass of the field. <br/> “ ‘Let him be drenched with the dew of heaven, and let him live with the animals among the plants of the earth. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_16"><sup>16</sup>Let his mind be changed from that of a man and let him be given the mind of an animal, till seven times<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or years ; also in verses 23, 25 and 32">⚓</a> pass by for him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘The decision is announced by messengers, the holy ones declare the verdict, so that the living may know that the Most High is sovereign over all kingdoms on earth and gives them to anyone he wishes and sets over them the lowliest of people.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_18"> <sup>18</sup>“This is the dream that I, King Nebuchadnezzar, had. Now, Belteshazzar, tell me what it means, for none of the wise men in my kingdom can interpret it for me. But you can, because the spirit of the holy gods is in you.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Daniel Interprets the Dream </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then Daniel (also called Belteshazzar) was greatly perplexed for a time, and his thoughts terrified him. So the king said, “Belteshazzar, do not let the dream or its meaning alarm you.” <br/> Belteshazzar answered, “My lord, if only the dream applied to your enemies and its meaning to your adversaries! </span>
<span class="verse da_4_20"><sup>20</sup>The tree you saw, which grew large and strong, with its top touching the sky, visible to the whole earth, </span>
<span class="verse da_4_21"><sup>21</sup>with beautiful leaves and abundant fruit, providing food for all, giving shelter to the wild animals, and having nesting places in its branches for the birds— </span>
<span class="verse da_4_22"><sup>22</sup>Your Majesty, you are that tree! You have become great and strong; your greatness has grown until it reaches the sky, and your dominion extends to distant parts of the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_23"> <sup>23</sup>“Your Majesty saw a holy one, a messenger, coming down from heaven and saying, ‘Cut down the tree and destroy it, but leave the stump, bound with iron and bronze, in the grass of the field, while its roots remain in the ground. Let him be drenched with the dew of heaven; let him live with the wild animals, until seven times pass by for him.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_24"> <sup>24</sup>“This is the interpretation, Your Majesty, and this is the decree the Most High has issued against my lord the king: </span>
<span class="verse da_4_25"><sup>25</sup>You will be driven away from people and will live with the wild animals; you will eat grass like the ox and be drenched with the dew of heaven. Seven times will pass by for you until you acknowledge that the Most High is sovereign over all kingdoms on earth and gives them to anyone he wishes. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_26"><sup>26</sup>The command to leave the stump of the tree with its roots means that your kingdom will be restored to you when you acknowledge that Heaven rules. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_27"><sup>27</sup>Therefore, Your Majesty, be pleased to accept my advice: Renounce your sins by doing what is right, and your wickedness by being kind to the oppressed. It may be that then your prosperity will continue.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Dream Is Fulfilled </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_4_28"> <sup>28</sup>All this happened to King Nebuchadnezzar. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_29"><sup>29</sup>Twelve months later, as the king was walking on the roof of the royal palace of Babylon, </span>
<span class="verse da_4_30"><sup>30</sup>he said, “Is not this the great Babylon I have built as the royal residence, by my mighty power and for the glory of my majesty?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_31"> <sup>31</sup>Even as the words were on his lips, a voice came from heaven, “This is what is decreed for you, King Nebuchadnezzar: Your royal authority has been taken from you. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_32"><sup>32</sup>You will be driven away from people and will live with the wild animals; you will eat grass like the ox. Seven times will pass by for you until you acknowledge that the Most High is sovereign over all kingdoms on earth and gives them to anyone he wishes.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_33"> <sup>33</sup>Immediately what had been said about Nebuchadnezzar was fulfilled. He was driven away from people and ate grass like the ox. His body was drenched with the dew of heaven until his hair grew like the feathers of an eagle and his nails like the claws of a bird. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_34"> <sup>34</sup>At the end of that time, I, Nebuchadnezzar, raised my eyes toward heaven, and my sanity was restored. Then I praised the Most High; I honored and glorified him who lives forever. <br/>  His dominion is an eternal dominion; <br/>   his kingdom endures from generation to generation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_35">  <sup>35</sup>All the peoples of the earth <br/>   are regarded as nothing. <br/>  He does as he pleases <br/>   with the powers of heaven <br/>   and the peoples of the earth. <br/>  No one can hold back his hand <br/>   or say to him: “What have you done?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_4_36"> <sup>36</sup>At the same time that my sanity was restored, my honor and splendor were returned to me for the glory of my kingdom. My advisers and nobles sought me out, and I was restored to my throne and became even greater than before. </span>
<span class="verse da_4_37"><sup>37</sup>Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and exalt and glorify the King of heaven, because everything he does is right and all his ways are just. And those who walk in pride he is able to humble. <br/></span>
