---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
audio: \Audio\NIV\da\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>The Writing on the Wall </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>King Belshazzar gave a great banquet for a thousand of his nobles and drank wine with them. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_2"><sup>2</sup>While Belshazzar was drinking his wine, he gave orders to bring in the gold and silver goblets that Nebuchadnezzar his father<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or ancestor ; or predecessor ; also in verses 11, 13 and 18">⚓</a> had taken from the temple in Jerusalem, so that the king and his nobles, his wives and his concubines might drink from them. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_3"><sup>3</sup>So they brought in the gold goblets that had been taken from the temple of God in Jerusalem, and the king and his nobles, his wives and his concubines drank from them. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_4"><sup>4</sup>As they drank the wine, they praised the gods of gold and silver, of bronze, iron, wood and stone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_5"> <sup>5</sup>Suddenly the fingers of a human hand appeared and wrote on the plaster of the wall, near the lampstand in the royal palace. The king watched the hand as it wrote. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_6"><sup>6</sup>His face turned pale and he was so frightened that his legs became weak and his knees were knocking. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_7"> <sup>7</sup>The king summoned the enchanters, astrologers<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans ; also in verse 11">⚓</a> and diviners. Then he said to these wise men of Babylon, “Whoever reads this writing and tells me what it means will be clothed in purple and have a gold chain placed around his neck, and he will be made the third highest ruler in the kingdom.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then all the king’s wise men came in, but they could not read the writing or tell the king what it meant. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_9"><sup>9</sup>So King Belshazzar became even more terrified and his face grew more pale. His nobles were baffled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_10"> <sup>10</sup>The queen,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or queen mother">⚓</a> hearing the voices of the king and his nobles, came into the banquet hall. “May the king live forever!” she said. “Don’t be alarmed! Don’t look so pale! </span>
<span class="verse da_5_11"><sup>11</sup>There is a man in your kingdom who has the spirit of the holy gods in him. In the time of your father he was found to have insight and intelligence and wisdom like that of the gods. Your father, King Nebuchadnezzar, appointed him chief of the magicians, enchanters, astrologers and diviners. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_12"><sup>12</sup>He did this because Daniel, whom the king called Belteshazzar, was found to have a keen mind and knowledge and understanding, and also the ability to interpret dreams, explain riddles and solve difficult problems. Call for Daniel, and he will tell you what the writing means.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>So Daniel was brought before the king, and the king said to him, “Are you Daniel, one of the exiles my father the king brought from Judah? </span>
<span class="verse da_5_14"><sup>14</sup>I have heard that the spirit of the gods is in you and that you have insight, intelligence and outstanding wisdom. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_15"><sup>15</sup>The wise men and enchanters were brought before me to read this writing and tell me what it means, but they could not explain it. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_16"><sup>16</sup>Now I have heard that you are able to give interpretations and to solve difficult problems. If you can read this writing and tell me what it means, you will be clothed in purple and have a gold chain placed around your neck, and you will be made the third highest ruler in the kingdom.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then Daniel answered the king, “You may keep your gifts for yourself and give your rewards to someone else. Nevertheless, I will read the writing for the king and tell him what it means. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Your Majesty, the Most High God gave your father Nebuchadnezzar sovereignty and greatness and glory and splendor. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_19"><sup>19</sup>Because of the high position he gave him, all the nations and peoples of every language dreaded and feared him. Those the king wanted to put to death, he put to death; those he wanted to spare, he spared; those he wanted to promote, he promoted; and those he wanted to humble, he humbled. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_20"><sup>20</sup>But when his heart became arrogant and hardened with pride, he was deposed from his royal throne and stripped of his glory. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_21"><sup>21</sup>He was driven away from people and given the mind of an animal; he lived with the wild donkeys and ate grass like the ox; and his body was drenched with the dew of heaven, until he acknowledged that the Most High God is sovereign over all kingdoms on earth and sets over them anyone he wishes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_22"> <sup>22</sup>“But you, Belshazzar, his son,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or descendant ; or successor">⚓</a> have not humbled yourself, though you knew all this. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_23"><sup>23</sup>Instead, you have set yourself up against the Lord of heaven. You had the goblets from his temple brought to you, and you and your nobles, your wives and your concubines drank wine from them. You praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood and stone, which cannot see or hear or understand. But you did not honor the God who holds in his hand your life and all your ways. </span>
<span class="verse da_5_24"><sup>24</sup>Therefore he sent the hand that wrote the inscription. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_25"> <sup>25</sup>“This is the inscription that was written: <br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">mene, mene, tekel, parsin </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_26"> <sup>26</sup>“Here is what these words mean: <br/>  <i>Mene</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 5:26 Mene can mean  numbered or  mina (a unit of money). ">⚓</a> : God has numbered the days of your reign and brought it to an end. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_27">  <sup>27</sup><i>Tekel</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 5:27 Tekel can mean  weighed or  shekel . ">⚓</a> : You have been weighed on the scales and found wanting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_28">  <sup>28</sup><i>Peres</i><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 5:28 Peres (the singular of  Parsin ) can mean  divided or  Persia or  a half mina or  a half shekel . ">⚓</a> : Your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_29"> <sup>29</sup>Then at Belshazzar’s command, Daniel was clothed in purple, a gold chain was placed around his neck, and he was proclaimed the third highest ruler in the kingdom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_5_30"> <sup>30</sup>That very night Belshazzar, king of the Babylonians,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a> was slain, </span>
<span class="verse da_5_31"><sup>31</sup>and Darius the Mede took over the kingdom, at the age of sixty-two.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Aramaic texts this verse (5:31) is numbered 6:1.">⚓</a><br/></span>
