---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
audio: \Audio\NIV\da\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Daniel in the Den of Lions </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>It pleased Darius to appoint 120 satraps to rule throughout the kingdom, </span>
<span class="verse da_6_2"><sup>2</sup>with three administrators over them, one of whom was Daniel. The satraps were made accountable to them so that the king might not suffer loss. </span>
<span class="verse da_6_3"><sup>3</sup>Now Daniel so distinguished himself among the administrators and the satraps by his exceptional qualities that the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom. </span>
<span class="verse da_6_4"><sup>4</sup>At this, the administrators and the satraps tried to find grounds for charges against Daniel in his conduct of government affairs, but they were unable to do so. They could find no corruption in him, because he was trustworthy and neither corrupt nor negligent. </span>
<span class="verse da_6_5"><sup>5</sup>Finally these men said, “We will never find any basis for charges against this man Daniel unless it has something to do with the law of his God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>So these administrators and satraps went as a group to the king and said: “May King Darius live forever! </span>
<span class="verse da_6_7"><sup>7</sup>The royal administrators, prefects, satraps, advisers and governors have all agreed that the king should issue an edict and enforce the decree that anyone who prays to any god or human being during the next thirty days, except to you, Your Majesty, shall be thrown into the lions’ den. </span>
<span class="verse da_6_8"><sup>8</sup>Now, Your Majesty, issue the decree and put it in writing so that it cannot be altered—in accordance with the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be repealed.” </span>
<span class="verse da_6_9"><sup>9</sup>So King Darius put the decree in writing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_10"> <sup>10</sup>Now when Daniel learned that the decree had been published, he went home to his upstairs room where the windows opened toward Jerusalem. Three times a day he got down on his knees and prayed, giving thanks to his God, just as he had done before. </span>
<span class="verse da_6_11"><sup>11</sup>Then these men went as a group and found Daniel praying and asking God for help. </span>
<span class="verse da_6_12"><sup>12</sup>So they went to the king and spoke to him about his royal decree: “Did you not publish a decree that during the next thirty days anyone who prays to any god or human being except to you, Your Majesty, would be thrown into the lions’ den?” <br/> The king answered, “The decree stands—in accordance with the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be repealed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then they said to the king, “Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, pays no attention to you, Your Majesty, or to the decree you put in writing. He still prays three times a day.” </span>
<span class="verse da_6_14"><sup>14</sup>When the king heard this, he was greatly distressed; he was determined to rescue Daniel and made every effort until sundown to save him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the men went as a group to King Darius and said to him, “Remember, Your Majesty, that according to the law of the Medes and Persians no decree or edict that the king issues can be changed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>So the king gave the order, and they brought Daniel and threw him into the lions’ den. The king said to Daniel, “May your God, whom you serve continually, rescue you!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>A stone was brought and placed over the mouth of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet ring and with the rings of his nobles, so that Daniel’s situation might not be changed. </span>
<span class="verse da_6_18"><sup>18</sup>Then the king returned to his palace and spent the night without eating and without any entertainment being brought to him. And he could not sleep. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_19"> <sup>19</sup>At the first light of dawn, the king got up and hurried to the lions’ den. </span>
<span class="verse da_6_20"><sup>20</sup>When he came near the den, he called to Daniel in an anguished voice, “Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you serve continually, been able to rescue you from the lions?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_21"> <sup>21</sup>Daniel answered, “May the king live forever! </span>
<span class="verse da_6_22"><sup>22</sup>My God sent his angel, and he shut the mouths of the lions. They have not hurt me, because I was found innocent in his sight. Nor have I ever done any wrong before you, Your Majesty.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_23"> <sup>23</sup>The king was overjoyed and gave orders to lift Daniel out of the den. And when Daniel was lifted from the den, no wound was found on him, because he had trusted in his God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_24"> <sup>24</sup>At the king’s command, the men who had falsely accused Daniel were brought in and thrown into the lions’ den, along with their wives and children. And before they reached the floor of the den, the lions overpowered them and crushed all their bones. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then King Darius wrote to all the nations and peoples of every language in all the earth: <br/> “May you prosper greatly! <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_26"> <sup>26</sup>“I issue a decree that in every part of my kingdom people must fear and reverence the God of Daniel. <br/>  “For he is the living God <br/>   and he endures forever; <br/>  his kingdom will not be destroyed, <br/>   his dominion will never end. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_27">  <sup>27</sup>He rescues and he saves; <br/>   he performs signs and wonders <br/>   in the heavens and on the earth. <br/>  He has rescued Daniel <br/>   from the power of the lions.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_6_28"> <sup>28</sup>So Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Darius, that is, the reign of Cyrus">⚓</a> the Persian. <br/></span>
