---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
audio: \Audio\NIV\da\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Daniel’s Dream of Four Beasts </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel had a dream, and visions passed through his mind as he was lying in bed. He wrote down the substance of his dream. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_2"> <sup>2</sup>Daniel said: “In my vision at night I looked, and there before me were the four winds of heaven churning up the great sea. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_3"><sup>3</sup>Four great beasts, each different from the others, came up out of the sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>“The first was like a lion, and it had the wings of an eagle. I watched until its wings were torn off and it was lifted from the ground so that it stood on two feet like a human being, and the mind of a human was given to it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_5"> <sup>5</sup>“And there before me was a second beast, which looked like a bear. It was raised up on one of its sides, and it had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth. It was told, ‘Get up and eat your fill of flesh!’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_6"> <sup>6</sup>“After that, I looked, and there before me was another beast, one that looked like a leopard. And on its back it had four wings like those of a bird. This beast had four heads, and it was given authority to rule. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_7"> <sup>7</sup>“After that, in my vision at night I looked, and there before me was a fourth beast—terrifying and frightening and very powerful. It had large iron teeth; it crushed and devoured its victims and trampled underfoot whatever was left. It was different from all the former beasts, and it had ten horns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_8"> <sup>8</sup>“While I was thinking about the horns, there before me was another horn, a little one, which came up among them; and three of the first horns were uprooted before it. This horn had eyes like the eyes of a human being and a mouth that spoke boastfully. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_9"> <sup>9</sup>“As I looked, <br/>  “thrones were set in place, <br/>   and the Ancient of Days took his seat. <br/>  His clothing was as white as snow; <br/>   the hair of his head was white like wool. <br/>  His throne was flaming with fire, <br/>   and its wheels were all ablaze. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_10">  <sup>10</sup>A river of fire was flowing, <br/>   coming out from before him. <br/>  Thousands upon thousands attended him; <br/>   ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. <br/>  The court was seated, <br/>   and the books were opened. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Then I continued to watch because of the boastful words the horn was speaking. I kept looking until the beast was slain and its body destroyed and thrown into the blazing fire. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_12"><sup>12</sup>(The other beasts had been stripped of their authority, but were allowed to live for a period of time.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>“In my vision at night I looked, and there before me was one like a son of man,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Aramaic phrase bar enash means human being . The phrase son of man is retained here because of its use in the New Testament as a title of Jesus, probably based largely on this verse.">⚓</a> coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the Ancient of Days and was led into his presence. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_14"><sup>14</sup>He was given authority, glory and sovereign power; all nations and peoples of every language worshiped him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away, and his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Interpretation of the Dream </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_7_15"> <sup>15</sup>“I, Daniel, was troubled in spirit, and the visions that passed through my mind disturbed me. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_16"><sup>16</sup>I approached one of those standing there and asked him the meaning of all this. <br/> “So he told me and gave me the interpretation of these things: </span>
<span class="verse da_7_17"><sup>17</sup>‘The four great beasts are four kings that will rise from the earth. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_18"><sup>18</sup>But the holy people of the Most High will receive the kingdom and will possess it forever—yes, for ever and ever.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Then I wanted to know the meaning of the fourth beast, which was different from all the others and most terrifying, with its iron teeth and bronze claws—the beast that crushed and devoured its victims and trampled underfoot whatever was left. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_20"><sup>20</sup>I also wanted to know about the ten horns on its head and about the other horn that came up, before which three of them fell—the horn that looked more imposing than the others and that had eyes and a mouth that spoke boastfully. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_21"><sup>21</sup>As I watched, this horn was waging war against the holy people and defeating them, </span>
<span class="verse da_7_22"><sup>22</sup>until the Ancient of Days came and pronounced judgment in favor of the holy people of the Most High, and the time came when they possessed the kingdom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_23"> <sup>23</sup>“He gave me this explanation: ‘The fourth beast is a fourth kingdom that will appear on earth. It will be different from all the other kingdoms and will devour the whole earth, trampling it down and crushing it. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_24"><sup>24</sup>The ten horns are ten kings who will come from this kingdom. After them another king will arise, different from the earlier ones; he will subdue three kings. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_25"><sup>25</sup>He will speak against the Most High and oppress his holy people and try to change the set times and the laws. The holy people will be delivered into his hands for a time, times and half a time.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or for a year, two years and half a year">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_26"> <sup>26</sup>“ ‘But the court will sit, and his power will be taken away and completely destroyed forever. </span>
<span class="verse da_7_27"><sup>27</sup>Then the sovereignty, power and greatness of all the kingdoms under heaven will be handed over to the holy people of the Most High. His kingdom will be an everlasting kingdom, and all rulers will worship and obey him.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_7_28"> <sup>28</sup>“This is the end of the matter. I, Daniel, was deeply troubled by my thoughts, and my face turned pale, but I kept the matter to myself.” <br/></span>
