---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
audio: \Audio\NIV\da\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>Daniel’s Vision of a Ram and a Goat </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the third year of King Belshazzar’s reign, I, Daniel, had a vision, after the one that had already appeared to me. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_2"><sup>2</sup>In my vision I saw myself in the citadel of Susa in the province of Elam; in the vision I was beside the Ulai Canal. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_3"><sup>3</sup>I looked up, and there before me was a ram with two horns, standing beside the canal, and the horns were long. One of the horns was longer than the other but grew up later. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_4"><sup>4</sup>I watched the ram as it charged toward the west and the north and the south. No animal could stand against it, and none could rescue from its power. It did as it pleased and became great. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_5"> <sup>5</sup>As I was thinking about this, suddenly a goat with a prominent horn between its eyes came from the west, crossing the whole earth without touching the ground. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_6"><sup>6</sup>It came toward the two-horned ram I had seen standing beside the canal and charged at it in great rage. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_7"><sup>7</sup>I saw it attack the ram furiously, striking the ram and shattering its two horns. The ram was powerless to stand against it; the goat knocked it to the ground and trampled on it, and none could rescue the ram from its power. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_8"><sup>8</sup>The goat became very great, but at the height of its power the large horn was broken off, and in its place four prominent horns grew up toward the four winds of heaven. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>Out of one of them came another horn, which started small but grew in power to the south and to the east and toward the Beautiful Land. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_10"><sup>10</sup>It grew until it reached the host of the heavens, and it threw some of the starry host down to the earth and trampled on them. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_11"><sup>11</sup>It set itself up to be as great as the commander of the army of the Lord; it took away the daily sacrifice from the Lord, and his sanctuary was thrown down. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_12"><sup>12</sup>Because of rebellion, the Lord’s people<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or rebellion, the armies">⚓</a> and the daily sacrifice were given over to it. It prospered in everything it did, and truth was thrown to the ground. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said to him, “How long will it take for the vision to be fulfilled—the vision concerning the daily sacrifice, the rebellion that causes desolation, the surrender of the sanctuary and the trampling underfoot of the Lord’s people?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_14"> <sup>14</sup>He said to me, “It will take 2,300 evenings and mornings; then the sanctuary will be reconsecrated.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Interpretation of the Vision </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_8_15"> <sup>15</sup>While I, Daniel, was watching the vision and trying to understand it, there before me stood one who looked like a man. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_16"><sup>16</sup>And I heard a man’s voice from the Ulai calling, “Gabriel, tell this man the meaning of the vision.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_17"> <sup>17</sup>As he came near the place where I was standing, I was terrified and fell prostrate. “Son of man,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew phrase ben adam means human being . The phrase son of man is retained as a form of address here because of its possible association with “Son of Man” in the New Testament.">⚓</a> he said to me, “understand that the vision concerns the time of the end.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_18"> <sup>18</sup>While he was speaking to me, I was in a deep sleep, with my face to the ground. Then he touched me and raised me to my feet. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_19"> <sup>19</sup>He said: “I am going to tell you what will happen later in the time of wrath, because the vision concerns the appointed time of the end.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or because the end will be at the appointed time">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse da_8_20"><sup>20</sup>The two-horned ram that you saw represents the kings of Media and Persia. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_21"><sup>21</sup>The shaggy goat is the king of Greece, and the large horn between its eyes is the first king. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_22"><sup>22</sup>The four horns that replaced the one that was broken off represent four kingdoms that will emerge from his nation but will not have the same power. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_23"> <sup>23</sup>“In the latter part of their reign, when rebels have become completely wicked, a fierce-looking king, a master of intrigue, will arise. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_24"><sup>24</sup>He will become very strong, but not by his own power. He will cause astounding devastation and will succeed in whatever he does. He will destroy those who are mighty, the holy people. </span>
<span class="verse da_8_25"><sup>25</sup>He will cause deceit to prosper, and he will consider himself superior. When they feel secure, he will destroy many and take his stand against the Prince of princes. Yet he will be destroyed, but not by human power. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_26"> <sup>26</sup>“The vision of the evenings and mornings that has been given you is true, but seal up the vision, for it concerns the distant future.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_8_27"> <sup>27</sup>I, Daniel, was worn out. I lay exhausted for several days. Then I got up and went about the king’s business. I was appalled by the vision; it was beyond understanding. <br/></span>
