---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
audio: \Audio\NIV\da\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>Daniel’s Vision of a Man </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia, a revelation was given to Daniel (who was called Belteshazzar). Its message was true and it concerned a great war.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or true and burdensome">⚓</a> The understanding of the message came to him in a vision. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_10_2"> <sup>2</sup>At that time I, Daniel, mourned for three weeks. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_3"><sup>3</sup>I ate no choice food; no meat or wine touched my lips; and I used no lotions at all until the three weeks were over. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_10_4"> <sup>4</sup>On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, as I was standing on the bank of the great river, the Tigris, </span>
<span class="verse da_10_5"><sup>5</sup>I looked up and there before me was a man dressed in linen, with a belt of fine gold from Uphaz around his waist. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_6"><sup>6</sup>His body was like topaz, his face like lightning, his eyes like flaming torches, his arms and legs like the gleam of burnished bronze, and his voice like the sound of a multitude. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_10_7"> <sup>7</sup>I, Daniel, was the only one who saw the vision; those who were with me did not see it, but such terror overwhelmed them that they fled and hid themselves. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_8"><sup>8</sup>So I was left alone, gazing at this great vision; I had no strength left, my face turned deathly pale and I was helpless. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_9"><sup>9</sup>Then I heard him speaking, and as I listened to him, I fell into a deep sleep, my face to the ground. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_10_10"> <sup>10</sup>A hand touched me and set me trembling on my hands and knees. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_11"><sup>11</sup>He said, “Daniel, you who are highly esteemed, consider carefully the words I am about to speak to you, and stand up, for I have now been sent to you.” And when he said this to me, I stood up trembling. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then he continued, “Do not be afraid, Daniel. Since the first day that you set your mind to gain understanding and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard, and I have come in response to them. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_13"><sup>13</sup>But the prince of the Persian kingdom resisted me twenty-one days. Then Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, because I was detained there with the king of Persia. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_14"><sup>14</sup>Now I have come to explain to you what will happen to your people in the future, for the vision concerns a time yet to come.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_10_15"> <sup>15</sup>While he was saying this to me, I bowed with my face toward the ground and was speechless. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_16"><sup>16</sup>Then one who looked like a man<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most manuscripts of the Masoretic Text; one manuscript of the Masoretic Text, Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint Then something that looked like a human hand">⚓</a> touched my lips, and I opened my mouth and began to speak. I said to the one standing before me, “I am overcome with anguish because of the vision, my lord, and I feel very weak. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_17"><sup>17</sup>How can I, your servant, talk with you, my lord? My strength is gone and I can hardly breathe.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>Again the one who looked like a man touched me and gave me strength. </span>
<span class="verse da_10_19"><sup>19</sup>“Do not be afraid, you who are highly esteemed,” he said. “Peace! Be strong now; be strong.” <br/> When he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, “Speak, my lord, since you have given me strength.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_10_20"> <sup>20</sup>So he said, “Do you know why I have come to you? Soon I will return to fight against the prince of Persia, and when I go, the prince of Greece will come; </span>
<span class="verse da_10_21"><sup>21</sup>but first I will tell you what is written in the Book of Truth. (No one supports me against them except Michael, your prince. <br/></span>
