---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Daniel 
bookNumber: 27
audio: \Audio\NIV\da\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>The End Times </h3></div>
<span class="verse da_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>“At that time Michael, the great prince who protects your people, will arise. There will be a time of distress such as has not happened from the beginning of nations until then. But at that time your people—everyone whose name is found written in the book—will be delivered. </span>
<span class="verse da_12_2"><sup>2</sup>Multitudes who sleep in the dust of the earth will awake: some to everlasting life, others to shame and everlasting contempt. </span>
<span class="verse da_12_3"><sup>3</sup>Those who are wise<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or who impart wisdom">⚓</a> will shine like the brightness of the heavens, and those who lead many to righteousness, like the stars for ever and ever. </span>
<span class="verse da_12_4"><sup>4</sup>But you, Daniel, roll up and seal the words of the scroll until the time of the end. Many will go here and there to increase knowledge.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_12_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then I, Daniel, looked, and there before me stood two others, one on this bank of the river and one on the opposite bank. </span>
<span class="verse da_12_6"><sup>6</sup>One of them said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, “How long will it be before these astonishing things are fulfilled?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>The man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, lifted his right hand and his left hand toward heaven, and I heard him swear by him who lives forever, saying, “It will be for a time, times and half a time.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or a year, two years and half a year">⚓</a> When the power of the holy people has been finally broken, all these things will be completed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>I heard, but I did not understand. So I asked, “My lord, what will the outcome of all this be?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_12_9"> <sup>9</sup>He replied, “Go your way, Daniel, because the words are rolled up and sealed until the time of the end. </span>
<span class="verse da_12_10"><sup>10</sup>Many will be purified, made spotless and refined, but the wicked will continue to be wicked. None of the wicked will understand, but those who are wise will understand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_12_11"> <sup>11</sup>“From the time that the daily sacrifice is abolished and the abomination that causes desolation is set up, there will be 1,290 days. </span>
<span class="verse da_12_12"><sup>12</sup>Blessed is the one who waits for and reaches the end of the 1,335 days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse da_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>“As for you, go your way till the end. You will rest, and then at the end of the days you will rise to receive your allotted inheritance.” <br/></span>
