---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Titus 
bookNumber: 56
audio: \Audio\NIV\tit\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse tit_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ to further the faith of God’s elect and their knowledge of the truth that leads to godliness— </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_2"><sup>2</sup>in the hope of eternal life, which God, who does not lie, promised before the beginning of time, </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_3"><sup>3</sup>and which now at his appointed season he has brought to light through the preaching entrusted to me by the command of God our Savior, <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>To Titus, my true son in our common faith: <br/> Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Appointing Elders Who Love What Is Good </h3></div>
<span class="verse tit_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>The reason I left you in Crete was that you might put in order what was left unfinished and appoint<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or ordain">⚓</a> elders in every town, as I directed you. </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_6"><sup>6</sup>An elder must be blameless, faithful to his wife, a man whose children believe<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or children are trustworthy">⚓</a> and are not open to the charge of being wild and disobedient. </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_7"><sup>7</sup>Since an overseer manages God’s household, he must be blameless—not overbearing, not quick-tempered, not given to drunkenness, not violent, not pursuing dishonest gain. </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_8"><sup>8</sup>Rather, he must be hospitable, one who loves what is good, who is self-controlled, upright, holy and disciplined. </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_9"><sup>9</sup>He must hold firmly to the trustworthy message as it has been taught, so that he can encourage others by sound doctrine and refute those who oppose it. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Rebuking Those Who Fail to Do Good </h3></div>
<span class="verse tit_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>For there are many rebellious people, full of meaningless talk and deception, especially those of the circumcision group. </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_11"><sup>11</sup>They must be silenced, because they are disrupting whole households by teaching things they ought not to teach—and that for the sake of dishonest gain. </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_12"><sup>12</sup>One of Crete’s own prophets has said it: “Cretans are always liars, evil brutes, lazy gluttons.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="From the Cretan philosopher Epimenides">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse tit_1_13"><sup>13</sup>This saying is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply, so that they will be sound in the faith </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_14"><sup>14</sup>and will pay no attention to Jewish myths or to the merely human commands of those who reject the truth. </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_15"><sup>15</sup>To the pure, all things are pure, but to those who are corrupted and do not believe, nothing is pure. In fact, both their minds and consciences are corrupted. </span>
<span class="verse tit_1_16"><sup>16</sup>They claim to know God, but by their actions they deny him. They are detestable, disobedient and unfit for doing anything good. <br/></span>
