---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Titus 
bookNumber: 56
audio: \Audio\NIV\tit\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Doing Good for the Sake of the Gospel </h3></div>
<span class="verse tit_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>You, however, must teach what is appropriate to sound doctrine. </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_2"><sup>2</sup>Teach the older men to be temperate, worthy of respect, self-controlled, and sound in faith, in love and in endurance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_2_3"> <sup>3</sup>Likewise, teach the older women to be reverent in the way they live, not to be slanderers or addicted to much wine, but to teach what is good. </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_4"><sup>4</sup>Then they can urge the younger women to love their husbands and children, </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_5"><sup>5</sup>to be self-controlled and pure, to be busy at home, to be kind, and to be subject to their husbands, so that no one will malign the word of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>Similarly, encourage the young men to be self-controlled. </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_7"><sup>7</sup>In everything set them an example by doing what is good. In your teaching show integrity, seriousness </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_8"><sup>8</sup>and soundness of speech that cannot be condemned, so that those who oppose you may be ashamed because they have nothing bad to say about us. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_2_9"> <sup>9</sup>Teach slaves to be subject to their masters in everything, to try to please them, not to talk back to them, </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_10"><sup>10</sup>and not to steal from them, but to show that they can be fully trusted, so that in every way they will make the teaching about God our Savior attractive. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>For the grace of God has appeared that offers salvation to all people. </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_12"><sup>12</sup>It teaches us to say “No” to ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright and godly lives in this present age, </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_13"><sup>13</sup>while we wait for the blessed hope—the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, </span>
<span class="verse tit_2_14"><sup>14</sup>who gave himself for us to redeem us from all wickedness and to purify for himself a people that are his very own, eager to do what is good. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>These, then, are the things you should teach. Encourage and rebuke with all authority. Do not let anyone despise you. <br/></span>
