---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Titus 
bookNumber: 56
audio: \Audio\NIV\tit\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Saved in Order to Do Good </h3></div>
<span class="verse tit_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Remind the people to be subject to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready to do whatever is good, </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_2"><sup>2</sup>to slander no one, to be peaceable and considerate, and always to be gentle toward everyone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_3_3"> <sup>3</sup>At one time we too were foolish, disobedient, deceived and enslaved by all kinds of passions and pleasures. We lived in malice and envy, being hated and hating one another. </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_4"><sup>4</sup>But when the kindness and love of God our Savior appeared, </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_5"><sup>5</sup>he saved us, not because of righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy. He saved us through the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit, </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_6"><sup>6</sup>whom he poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Savior, </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_7"><sup>7</sup>so that, having been justified by his grace, we might become heirs having the hope of eternal life. </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_8"><sup>8</sup>This is a trustworthy saying. And I want you to stress these things, so that those who have trusted in God may be careful to devote themselves to doing what is good. These things are excellent and profitable for everyone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_3_9"> <sup>9</sup>But avoid foolish controversies and genealogies and arguments and quarrels about the law, because these are unprofitable and useless. </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_10"><sup>10</sup>Warn a divisive person once, and then warn them a second time. After that, have nothing to do with them. </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_11"><sup>11</sup>You may be sure that such people are warped and sinful; they are self-condemned. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Remarks </h3></div>
<span class="verse tit_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>As soon as I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, do your best to come to me at Nicopolis, because I have decided to winter there. </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_13"><sup>13</sup>Do everything you can to help Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way and see that they have everything they need. </span>
<span class="verse tit_3_14"><sup>14</sup>Our people must learn to devote themselves to doing what is good, in order to provide for urgent needs and not live unproductive lives. <br/></span>
<span class="verse tit_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>Everyone with me sends you greetings. Greet those who love us in the faith. <br/> Grace be with you all. <br/></span>
