---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1co_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, called to be an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>To the church of God in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus and called to be his holy people, together with all those everywhere who call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ—their Lord and ours: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Thanksgiving </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>I always thank my God for you because of his grace given you in Christ Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_5"><sup>5</sup>For in him you have been enriched in every way—with all kinds of speech and with all knowledge— </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_6"><sup>6</sup>God thus confirming our testimony about Christ among you. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_7"><sup>7</sup>Therefore you do not lack any spiritual gift as you eagerly wait for our Lord Jesus Christ to be revealed. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_8"><sup>8</sup>He will also keep you firm to the end, so that you will be blameless on the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_9"><sup>9</sup>God is faithful, who has called you into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Church Divided Over Leaders </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>I appeal to you, brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in verses 11 and 26; and in 2:1; 3:1; 4:6; 6:8; 7:24, 29; 10:1; 11:33; 12:1; 14:6, 20, 26, 39; 15:1, 6, 50, 58; 16:15, 20.">⚓</a> in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree with one another in what you say and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly united in mind and thought. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_11"><sup>11</sup>My brothers and sisters, some from Chloe’s household have informed me that there are quarrels among you. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_12"><sup>12</sup>What I mean is this: One of you says, “I follow Paul”; another, “I follow Apollos”; another, “I follow Cephas<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Peter">⚓</a> ”; still another, “I follow Christ.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Were you baptized in the name of Paul? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_14"><sup>14</sup>I thank God that I did not baptize any of you except Crispus and Gaius, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_15"><sup>15</sup>so no one can say that you were baptized in my name. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_16"><sup>16</sup>(Yes, I also baptized the household of Stephanas; beyond that, I don’t remember if I baptized anyone else.) </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_17"><sup>17</sup>For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel—not with wisdom and eloquence, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Christ Crucified Is God’s Power and Wisdom </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_19"><sup>19</sup>For it is written: <br/>  “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise; <br/>   the intelligence of the intelligent I will frustrate.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 29:14">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_20"> <sup>20</sup>Where is the wise person? Where is the teacher of the law? Where is the philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_21"><sup>21</sup>For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not know him, God was pleased through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who believe. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_22"><sup>22</sup>Jews demand signs and Greeks look for wisdom, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_23"><sup>23</sup>but we preach Christ crucified: a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Gentiles, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_24"><sup>24</sup>but to those whom God has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_25"><sup>25</sup>For the foolishness of God is wiser than human wisdom, and the weakness of God is stronger than human strength. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_26"> <sup>26</sup>Brothers and sisters, think of what you were when you were called. Not many of you were wise by human standards; not many were influential; not many were of noble birth. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_27"><sup>27</sup>But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise; God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_28"><sup>28</sup>God chose the lowly things of this world and the despised things—and the things that are not—to nullify the things that are, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_29"><sup>29</sup>so that no one may boast before him. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_30"><sup>30</sup>It is because of him that you are in Christ Jesus, who has become for us wisdom from God—that is, our righteousness, holiness and redemption. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_1_31"><sup>31</sup>Therefore, as it is written: “Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 9:24">⚓</a><br/></span>
