---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1co_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>And so it was with me, brothers and sisters. When I came to you, I did not come with eloquence or human wisdom as I proclaimed to you the testimony about God.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts proclaimed to you God’s mystery">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_2"><sup>2</sup>For I resolved to know nothing while I was with you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_3"><sup>3</sup>I came to you in weakness with great fear and trembling. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_4"><sup>4</sup>My message and my preaching were not with wise and persuasive words, but with a demonstration of the Spirit’s power, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_5"><sup>5</sup>so that your faith might not rest on human wisdom, but on God’s power. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Wisdom Revealed by the Spirit </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>We do, however, speak a message of wisdom among the mature, but not the wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age, who are coming to nothing. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_7"><sup>7</sup>No, we declare God’s wisdom, a mystery that has been hidden and that God destined for our glory before time began. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_8"><sup>8</sup>None of the rulers of this age understood it, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_9"><sup>9</sup>However, as it is written: <br/>  “What no eye has seen, <br/>   what no ear has heard, <br/>  and what no human mind has conceived”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 64:4">⚓</a> — <br/>   the things God has prepared for those who love him— <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_10"><sup>10</sup>these are the things God has revealed to us by his Spirit. <br/> The Spirit searches all things, even the deep things of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_11"><sup>11</sup>For who knows a person’s thoughts except their own spirit within them? In the same way no one knows the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_12"><sup>12</sup>What we have received is not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may understand what God has freely given us. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_13"><sup>13</sup>This is what we speak, not in words taught us by human wisdom but in words taught by the Spirit, explaining spiritual realities with Spirit-taught words.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_14"><sup>14</sup>The person without the Spirit does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God but considers them foolishness, and cannot understand them because they are discerned only through the Spirit. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_15"><sup>15</sup>The person with the Spirit makes judgments about all things, but such a person is not subject to merely human judgments, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_2_16"><sup>16</sup>for, <br/>  “Who has known the mind of the Lord <br/>   so as to instruct him?”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 40:13">⚓</a><br/>But we have the mind of Christ. <br/></span>
