---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>The Church and Its Leaders </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Brothers and sisters, I could not address you as people who live by the Spirit but as people who are still worldly—mere infants in Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_2"><sup>2</sup>I gave you milk, not solid food, for you were not yet ready for it. Indeed, you are still not ready. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_3"><sup>3</sup>You are still worldly. For since there is jealousy and quarreling among you, are you not worldly? Are you not acting like mere humans? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_4"><sup>4</sup>For when one says, “I follow Paul,” and another, “I follow Apollos,” are you not mere human beings? <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>What, after all, is Apollos? And what is Paul? Only servants, through whom you came to believe—as the Lord has assigned to each his task. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_6"><sup>6</sup>I planted the seed, Apollos watered it, but God has been making it grow. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_7"><sup>7</sup>So neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything, but only God, who makes things grow. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_8"><sup>8</sup>The one who plants and the one who waters have one purpose, and they will each be rewarded according to their own labor. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_9"><sup>9</sup>For we are co-workers in God’s service; you are God’s field, God’s building. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>By the grace God has given me, I laid a foundation as a wise builder, and someone else is building on it. But each one should build with care. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_11"><sup>11</sup>For no one can lay any foundation other than the one already laid, which is Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_12"><sup>12</sup>If anyone builds on this foundation using gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay or straw, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_13"><sup>13</sup>their work will be shown for what it is, because the Day will bring it to light. It will be revealed with fire, and the fire will test the quality of each person’s work. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_14"><sup>14</sup>If what has been built survives, the builder will receive a reward. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_15"><sup>15</sup>If it is burned up, the builder will suffer loss but yet will be saved—even though only as one escaping through the flames. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_16"> <sup>16</sup>Don’t you know that you yourselves are God’s temple and that God’s Spirit dwells in your midst? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_17"><sup>17</sup>If anyone destroys God’s temple, God will destroy that person; for God’s temple is sacred, and you together are that temple. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_18"> <sup>18</sup>Do not deceive yourselves. If any of you think you are wise by the standards of this age, you should become “fools” so that you may become wise. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_19"><sup>19</sup>For the wisdom of this world is foolishness in God’s sight. As it is written: “He catches the wise in their craftiness”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 5:13">⚓</a> ; </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_20"><sup>20</sup>and again, “The Lord knows that the thoughts of the wise are futile.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 94:11">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_21"><sup>21</sup>So then, no more boasting about human leaders! All things are yours, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_22"><sup>22</sup>whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Peter">⚓</a> or the world or life or death or the present or the future—all are yours, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_3_23"><sup>23</sup>and you are of Christ, and Christ is of God. <br/></span>
