---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>Concerning Food Sacrificed to Idols </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now about food sacrificed to idols: We know that “We all possess knowledge.” But knowledge puffs up while love builds up. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_2"><sup>2</sup>Those who think they know something do not yet know as they ought to know. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_3"><sup>3</sup>But whoever loves God is known by God.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="An early manuscript and another ancient witness think they have knowledge do not yet know as they ought to know. 3But whoever loves truly knows.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_4"> <sup>4</sup>So then, about eating food sacrificed to idols: We know that “An idol is nothing at all in the world” and that “There is no God but one.” </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_5"><sup>5</sup>For even if there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth (as indeed there are many “gods” and many “lords”), </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_6"><sup>6</sup>yet for us there is but one God, the Father, from whom all things came and for whom we live; and there is but one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things came and through whom we live. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_7"> <sup>7</sup>But not everyone possesses this knowledge. Some people are still so accustomed to idols that when they eat sacrificial food they think of it as having been sacrificed to a god, and since their conscience is weak, it is defiled. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_8"><sup>8</sup>But food does not bring us near to God; we are no worse if we do not eat, and no better if we do. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>Be careful, however, that the exercise of your rights does not become a stumbling block to the weak. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_10"><sup>10</sup>For if someone with a weak conscience sees you, with all your knowledge, eating in an idol’s temple, won’t that person be emboldened to eat what is sacrificed to idols? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_11"><sup>11</sup>So this weak brother or sister, for whom Christ died, is destroyed by your knowledge. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_12"><sup>12</sup>When you sin against them in this way and wound their weak conscience, you sin against Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_8_13"><sup>13</sup>Therefore, if what I eat causes my brother or sister to fall into sin, I will never eat meat again, so that I will not cause them to fall. <br/></span>
