---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>Paul’s Rights as an Apostle </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not the result of my work in the Lord? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_2"><sup>2</sup>Even though I may not be an apostle to others, surely I am to you! For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_3"> <sup>3</sup>This is my defense to those who sit in judgment on me. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_4"><sup>4</sup>Don’t we have the right to food and drink? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_5"><sup>5</sup>Don’t we have the right to take a believing wife along with us, as do the other apostles and the Lord’s brothers and Cephas<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Peter">⚓</a> ? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_6"><sup>6</sup>Or is it only I and Barnabas who lack the right to not work for a living? <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat its grapes? Who tends a flock and does not drink the milk? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_8"><sup>8</sup>Do I say this merely on human authority? Doesn’t the Law say the same thing? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_9"><sup>9</sup>For it is written in the Law of Moses: “Do not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 25:4">⚓</a> Is it about oxen that God is concerned? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_10"><sup>10</sup>Surely he says this for us, doesn’t he? Yes, this was written for us, because whoever plows and threshes should be able to do so in the hope of sharing in the harvest. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_11"><sup>11</sup>If we have sown spiritual seed among you, is it too much if we reap a material harvest from you? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_12"><sup>12</sup>If others have this right of support from you, shouldn’t we have it all the more? <br/> But we did not use this right. On the contrary, we put up with anything rather than hinder the gospel of Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_13"> <sup>13</sup>Don’t you know that those who serve in the temple get their food from the temple, and that those who serve at the altar share in what is offered on the altar? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_14"><sup>14</sup>In the same way, the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should receive their living from the gospel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_15"> <sup>15</sup>But I have not used any of these rights. And I am not writing this in the hope that you will do such things for me, for I would rather die than allow anyone to deprive me of this boast. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_16"><sup>16</sup>For when I preach the gospel, I cannot boast, since I am compelled to preach. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel! </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_17"><sup>17</sup>If I preach voluntarily, I have a reward; if not voluntarily, I am simply discharging the trust committed to me. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_18"><sup>18</sup>What then is my reward? Just this: that in preaching the gospel I may offer it free of charge, and so not make full use of my rights as a preacher of the gospel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Use of His Freedom </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_9_19"> <sup>19</sup>Though I am free and belong to no one, I have made myself a slave to everyone, to win as many as possible. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_20"><sup>20</sup>To the Jews I became like a Jew, to win the Jews. To those under the law I became like one under the law (though I myself am not under the law), so as to win those under the law. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_21"><sup>21</sup>To those not having the law I became like one not having the law (though I am not free from God’s law but am under Christ’s law), so as to win those not having the law. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_22"><sup>22</sup>To the weak I became weak, to win the weak. I have become all things to all people so that by all possible means I might save some. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_23"><sup>23</sup>I do all this for the sake of the gospel, that I may share in its blessings. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Need for Self-Discipline </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_9_24"> <sup>24</sup>Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one gets the prize? Run in such a way as to get the prize. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_25"><sup>25</sup>Everyone who competes in the games goes into strict training. They do it to get a crown that will not last, but we do it to get a crown that will last forever. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_26"><sup>26</sup>Therefore I do not run like someone running aimlessly; I do not fight like a boxer beating the air. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_9_27"><sup>27</sup>No, I strike a blow to my body and make it my slave so that after I have preached to others, I myself will not be disqualified for the prize. <br/></span>
