---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1co_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Follow my example, as I follow the example of Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>On Covering the Head in Worship </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_11_2"> <sup>2</sup>I praise you for remembering me in everything and for holding to the traditions just as I passed them on to you. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_3"><sup>3</sup>But I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is man,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or of the wife is her husband">⚓</a> and the head of Christ is God. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_4"><sup>4</sup>Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_5"><sup>5</sup>But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head—it is the same as having her head shaved. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_6"><sup>6</sup>For if a woman does not cover her head, she might as well have her hair cut off; but if it is a disgrace for a woman to have her hair cut off or her head shaved, then she should cover her head. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>A man ought not to cover his head,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or 4Every man who prays or prophesies with long hair dishonors his head. 5But every woman who prays or prophesies with no covering of hair dishonors her head—she is just like one of the “shorn women.” 6If a woman has no covering, let her be for now with short hair; but since it is a disgrace for a woman to have her hair shorn or shaved, she should grow it again. 7A man ought not to have long hair">⚓</a> since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of man. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_8"><sup>8</sup>For man did not come from woman, but woman from man; </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_9"><sup>9</sup>neither was man created for woman, but woman for man. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_10"><sup>10</sup>It is for this reason that a woman ought to have authority over her own<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or have a sign of authority on her">⚓</a> head, because of the angels. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_11"><sup>11</sup>Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_12"><sup>12</sup>For as woman came from man, so also man is born of woman. But everything comes from God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>Judge for yourselves: Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_14"><sup>14</sup>Does not the very nature of things teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a disgrace to him, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_15"><sup>15</sup>but that if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For long hair is given to her as a covering. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_16"><sup>16</sup>If anyone wants to be contentious about this, we have no other practice—nor do the churches of God. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Correcting an Abuse of the Lord’s Supper </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_11_17"> <sup>17</sup>In the following directives I have no praise for you, for your meetings do more harm than good. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_18"><sup>18</sup>In the first place, I hear that when you come together as a church, there are divisions among you, and to some extent I believe it. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_19"><sup>19</sup>No doubt there have to be differences among you to show which of you have God’s approval. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_20"><sup>20</sup>So then, when you come together, it is not the Lord’s Supper you eat, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_21"><sup>21</sup>for when you are eating, some of you go ahead with your own private suppers. As a result, one person remains hungry and another gets drunk. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_22"><sup>22</sup>Don’t you have homes to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God by humiliating those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? Certainly not in this matter! <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_23"> <sup>23</sup>For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you: The Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took bread, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_24"><sup>24</sup>and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, <font color="red">“This is my body, which is for you; do this in remembrance of me.”</font></span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_25"><sup>25</sup>In the same way, after supper he took the cup, saying, <font color="red">“This cup is the new covenant in my blood; do this, whenever you drink it, in remembrance of me.”</font></span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_26"><sup>26</sup>For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until he comes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_27"> <sup>27</sup>So then, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_28"><sup>28</sup>Everyone ought to examine themselves before they eat of the bread and drink from the cup. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_29"><sup>29</sup>For those who eat and drink without discerning the body of Christ eat and drink judgment on themselves. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_30"><sup>30</sup>That is why many among you are weak and sick, and a number of you have fallen asleep. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_31"><sup>31</sup>But if we were more discerning with regard to ourselves, we would not come under such judgment. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_32"><sup>32</sup>Nevertheless, when we are judged in this way by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be finally condemned with the world. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_33"> <sup>33</sup>So then, my brothers and sisters, when you gather to eat, you should all eat together. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_11_34"><sup>34</sup>Anyone who is hungry should eat something at home, so that when you meet together it may not result in judgment. <br/> And when I come I will give further directions. <br/></span>
