---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Concerning Spiritual Gifts </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now about the gifts of the Spirit, brothers and sisters, I do not want you to be uninformed. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_2"><sup>2</sup>You know that when you were pagans, somehow or other you were influenced and led astray to mute idols. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_3"><sup>3</sup>Therefore I want you to know that no one who is speaking by the Spirit of God says, “Jesus be cursed,” and no one can say, “Jesus is Lord,” except by the Holy Spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_4"> <sup>4</sup>There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit distributes them. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_5"><sup>5</sup>There are different kinds of service, but the same Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_6"><sup>6</sup>There are different kinds of working, but in all of them and in everyone it is the same God at work. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now to each one the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the common good. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_8"><sup>8</sup>To one there is given through the Spirit a message of wisdom, to another a message of knowledge by means of the same Spirit, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_9"><sup>9</sup>to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by that one Spirit, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_10"><sup>10</sup>to another miraculous powers, to another prophecy, to another distinguishing between spirits, to another speaking in different kinds of tongues,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or languages ; also in verse 28">⚓</a> and to still another the interpretation of tongues.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or languages ; also in verse 28">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_11"><sup>11</sup>All these are the work of one and the same Spirit, and he distributes them to each one, just as he determines. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Unity and Diversity in the Body </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_12_12"> <sup>12</sup>Just as a body, though one, has many parts, but all its many parts form one body, so it is with Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_13"><sup>13</sup>For we were all baptized by<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or with ; or in">⚓</a> one Spirit so as to form one body—whether Jews or Gentiles, slave or free—and we were all given the one Spirit to drink. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_14"><sup>14</sup>Even so the body is not made up of one part but of many. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_15"> <sup>15</sup>Now if the foot should say, “Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body,” it would not for that reason stop being part of the body. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_16"><sup>16</sup>And if the ear should say, “Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body,” it would not for that reason stop being part of the body. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_17"><sup>17</sup>If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If the whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell be? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_18"><sup>18</sup>But in fact God has placed the parts in the body, every one of them, just as he wanted them to be. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_19"><sup>19</sup>If they were all one part, where would the body be? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_20"><sup>20</sup>As it is, there are many parts, but one body. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_21"> <sup>21</sup>The eye cannot say to the hand, “I don’t need you!” And the head cannot say to the feet, “I don’t need you!” </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_22"><sup>22</sup>On the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_23"><sup>23</sup>and the parts that we think are less honorable we treat with special honor. And the parts that are unpresentable are treated with special modesty, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_24"><sup>24</sup>while our presentable parts need no special treatment. But God has put the body together, giving greater honor to the parts that lacked it, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_25"><sup>25</sup>so that there should be no division in the body, but that its parts should have equal concern for each other. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_26"><sup>26</sup>If one part suffers, every part suffers with it; if one part is honored, every part rejoices with it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_27"> <sup>27</sup>Now you are the body of Christ, and each one of you is a part of it. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_28"><sup>28</sup>And God has placed in the church first of all apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, of helping, of guidance, and of different kinds of tongues. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_29"><sup>29</sup>Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_30"><sup>30</sup>Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak in tongues<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or other languages">⚓</a> ? Do all interpret? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_12_31"><sup>31</sup>Now eagerly desire the greater gifts. <br/> And yet I will show you the most excellent way. <br/></span>
