---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>Intelligibility in Worship </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>Follow the way of love and eagerly desire gifts of the Spirit, especially prophecy. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_2"><sup>2</sup>For anyone who speaks in a tongue<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in another language ; also in verses 4, 13, 14, 19, 26 and 27">⚓</a> does not speak to people but to God. Indeed, no one understands them; they utter mysteries by the Spirit. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_3"><sup>3</sup>But the one who prophesies speaks to people for their strengthening, encouraging and comfort. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_4"><sup>4</sup>Anyone who speaks in a tongue edifies themselves, but the one who prophesies edifies the church. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_5"><sup>5</sup>I would like every one of you to speak in tongues,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in other languages ; also in verses 6, 18, 22, 23 and 39">⚓</a> but I would rather have you prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in other languages ; also in verses 6, 18, 22, 23 and 39">⚓</a> unless someone interprets, so that the church may be edified. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now, brothers and sisters, if I come to you and speak in tongues, what good will I be to you, unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or word of instruction? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_7"><sup>7</sup>Even in the case of lifeless things that make sounds, such as the pipe or harp, how will anyone know what tune is being played unless there is a distinction in the notes? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_8"><sup>8</sup>Again, if the trumpet does not sound a clear call, who will get ready for battle? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_9"><sup>9</sup>So it is with you. Unless you speak intelligible words with your tongue, how will anyone know what you are saying? You will just be speaking into the air. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_10"><sup>10</sup>Undoubtedly there are all sorts of languages in the world, yet none of them is without meaning. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_11"><sup>11</sup>If then I do not grasp the meaning of what someone is saying, I am a foreigner to the speaker, and the speaker is a foreigner to me. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_12"><sup>12</sup>So it is with you. Since you are eager for gifts of the Spirit, try to excel in those that build up the church. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>For this reason the one who speaks in a tongue should pray that they may interpret what they say. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_14"><sup>14</sup>For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_15"><sup>15</sup>So what shall I do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will also pray with my understanding; I will sing with my spirit, but I will also sing with my understanding. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_16"><sup>16</sup>Otherwise when you are praising God in the Spirit, how can someone else, who is now put in the position of an inquirer,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for inquirer is a technical term for someone not fully initiated into a religion; also in verses 23 and 24.">⚓</a> say “Amen” to your thanksgiving, since they do not know what you are saying? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_17"><sup>17</sup>You are giving thanks well enough, but no one else is edified. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_18"> <sup>18</sup>I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_19"><sup>19</sup>But in the church I would rather speak five intelligible words to instruct others than ten thousand words in a tongue. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_20"> <sup>20</sup>Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children. In regard to evil be infants, but in your thinking be adults. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_21"><sup>21</sup>In the Law it is written: <br/>  “With other tongues <br/>   and through the lips of foreigners <br/>  I will speak to this people, <br/>   but even then they will not listen to me, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">says the Lord.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 28:11,12">⚓</a></aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_22"> <sup>22</sup>Tongues, then, are a sign, not for believers but for unbelievers; prophecy, however, is not for unbelievers but for believers. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_23"><sup>23</sup>So if the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in tongues, and inquirers or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you are out of your mind? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_24"><sup>24</sup>But if an unbeliever or an inquirer comes in while everyone is prophesying, they are convicted of sin and are brought under judgment by all, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_25"><sup>25</sup>as the secrets of their hearts are laid bare. So they will fall down and worship God, exclaiming, “God is really among you!” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Good Order in Worship </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_14_26"> <sup>26</sup>What then shall we say, brothers and sisters? When you come together, each of you has a hymn, or a word of instruction, a revelation, a tongue or an interpretation. Everything must be done so that the church may be built up. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_27"><sup>27</sup>If anyone speaks in a tongue, two—or at the most three—should speak, one at a time, and someone must interpret. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_28"><sup>28</sup>If there is no interpreter, the speaker should keep quiet in the church and speak to himself and to God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_29"> <sup>29</sup>Two or three prophets should speak, and the others should weigh carefully what is said. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_30"><sup>30</sup>And if a revelation comes to someone who is sitting down, the first speaker should stop. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_31"><sup>31</sup>For you can all prophesy in turn so that everyone may be instructed and encouraged. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_32"><sup>32</sup>The spirits of prophets are subject to the control of prophets. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_33"><sup>33</sup>For God is not a God of disorder but of peace—as in all the congregations of the Lord’s people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_34"> <sup>34</sup>Women<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or peace. As in all the congregations of the Lord’s people, 34women">⚓</a> should remain silent in the churches. They are not allowed to speak, but must be in submission, as the law says. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_35"><sup>35</sup>If they want to inquire about something, they should ask their own husbands at home; for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in the church.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In a few manuscripts these verses come after verse 40.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_36"> <sup>36</sup>Or did the word of God originate with you? Or are you the only people it has reached? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_37"><sup>37</sup>If anyone thinks they are a prophet or otherwise gifted by the Spirit, let them acknowledge that what I am writing to you is the Lord’s command. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_38"><sup>38</sup>But if anyone ignores this, they will themselves be ignored.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts But anyone who is ignorant of this will be ignorant">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_39"> <sup>39</sup>Therefore, my brothers and sisters, be eager to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_14_40"><sup>40</sup>But everything should be done in a fitting and orderly way. <br/></span>
