---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Corinthians 
bookNumber: 46
audio: \Audio\NIV\1co\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>The Resurrection of Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now, brothers and sisters, I want to remind you of the gospel I preached to you, which you received and on which you have taken your stand. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_2"><sup>2</sup>By this gospel you are saved, if you hold firmly to the word I preached to you. Otherwise, you have believed in vain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_3"> <sup>3</sup>For what I received I passed on to you as of first importance<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or you at the first">⚓</a> : that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_4"><sup>4</sup>that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_5"><sup>5</sup>and that he appeared to Cephas,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Peter">⚓</a> and then to the Twelve. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_6"><sup>6</sup>After that, he appeared to more than five hundred of the brothers and sisters at the same time, most of whom are still living, though some have fallen asleep. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_7"><sup>7</sup>Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles, </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_8"><sup>8</sup>and last of all he appeared to me also, as to one abnormally born. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_9"> <sup>9</sup>For I am the least of the apostles and do not even deserve to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_10"><sup>10</sup>But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace to me was not without effect. No, I worked harder than all of them—yet not I, but the grace of God that was with me. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_11"><sup>11</sup>Whether, then, it is I or they, this is what we preach, and this is what you believed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Resurrection of the Dead </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_15_12"> <sup>12</sup>But if it is preached that Christ has been raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_13"><sup>13</sup>If there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_14"><sup>14</sup>And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_15"><sup>15</sup>More than that, we are then found to be false witnesses about God, for we have testified about God that he raised Christ from the dead. But he did not raise him if in fact the dead are not raised. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_16"><sup>16</sup>For if the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been raised either. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_17"><sup>17</sup>And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_18"><sup>18</sup>Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_19"><sup>19</sup>If only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are of all people most to be pitied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_20"> <sup>20</sup>But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_21"><sup>21</sup>For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_22"><sup>22</sup>For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_23"><sup>23</sup>But each in turn: Christ, the firstfruits; then, when he comes, those who belong to him. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_24"><sup>24</sup>Then the end will come, when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father after he has destroyed all dominion, authority and power. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_25"><sup>25</sup>For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_26"><sup>26</sup>The last enemy to be destroyed is death. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_27"><sup>27</sup>For he “has put everything under his feet.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 8:6">⚓</a> Now when it says that “everything” has been put under him, it is clear that this does not include God himself, who put everything under Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_28"><sup>28</sup>When he has done this, then the Son himself will be made subject to him who put everything under him, so that God may be all in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_29"> <sup>29</sup>Now if there is no resurrection, what will those do who are baptized for the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why are people baptized for them? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_30"><sup>30</sup>And as for us, why do we endanger ourselves every hour? </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_31"><sup>31</sup>I face death every day—yes, just as surely as I boast about you in Christ Jesus our Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_32"><sup>32</sup>If I fought wild beasts in Ephesus with no more than human hopes, what have I gained? If the dead are not raised, <br/>  “Let us eat and drink, <br/>   for tomorrow we die.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 22:13">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_33"><sup>33</sup>Do not be misled: “Bad company corrupts good character.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="From the Greek poet Menander">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_34"><sup>34</sup>Come back to your senses as you ought, and stop sinning; for there are some who are ignorant of God—I say this to your shame. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Resurrection Body </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1co_15_35"> <sup>35</sup>But someone will ask, “How are the dead raised? With what kind of body will they come?” </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_36"><sup>36</sup>How foolish! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_37"><sup>37</sup>When you sow, you do not plant the body that will be, but just a seed, perhaps of wheat or of something else. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_38"><sup>38</sup>But God gives it a body as he has determined, and to each kind of seed he gives its own body. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_39"><sup>39</sup>Not all flesh is the same: People have one kind of flesh, animals have another, birds another and fish another. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_40"><sup>40</sup>There are also heavenly bodies and there are earthly bodies; but the splendor of the heavenly bodies is one kind, and the splendor of the earthly bodies is another. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_41"><sup>41</sup>The sun has one kind of splendor, the moon another and the stars another; and star differs from star in splendor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_42"> <sup>42</sup>So will it be with the resurrection of the dead. The body that is sown is perishable, it is raised imperishable; </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_43"><sup>43</sup>it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_44"><sup>44</sup>it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. <br/> If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_45"><sup>45</sup>So it is written: “The first man Adam became a living being”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 2:7">⚓</a> ; the last Adam, a life-giving spirit. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_46"><sup>46</sup>The spiritual did not come first, but the natural, and after that the spiritual. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_47"><sup>47</sup>The first man was of the dust of the earth; the second man is of heaven. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_48"><sup>48</sup>As was the earthly man, so are those who are of the earth; and as is the heavenly man, so also are those who are of heaven. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_49"><sup>49</sup>And just as we have borne the image of the earthly man, so shall we<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts so let us">⚓</a> bear the image of the heavenly man. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_50"> <sup>50</sup>I declare to you, brothers and sisters, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_51"><sup>51</sup>Listen, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed— </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_52"><sup>52</sup>in a flash, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_53"><sup>53</sup>For the perishable must clothe itself with the imperishable, and the mortal with immortality. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_54"><sup>54</sup>When the perishable has been clothed with the imperishable, and the mortal with immortality, then the saying that is written will come true: “Death has been swallowed up in victory.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 25:8">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_55">  <sup>55</sup>“Where, O death, is your victory? <br/>   Where, O death, is your sting?”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hosea 13:14">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_56"><sup>56</sup>The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. </span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_57"><sup>57</sup>But thanks be to God! He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1co_15_58"> <sup>58</sup>Therefore, my dear brothers and sisters, stand firm. Let nothing move you. Always give yourselves fully to the work of the Lord, because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. <br/></span>
