---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Timothy 
bookNumber: 55
audio: \Audio\NIV\2ti\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, in keeping with the promise of life that is in Christ Jesus, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>To Timothy, my dear son: <br/> Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Thanksgiving </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>I thank God, whom I serve, as my ancestors did, with a clear conscience, as night and day I constantly remember you in my prayers. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_4"><sup>4</sup>Recalling your tears, I long to see you, so that I may be filled with joy. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_5"><sup>5</sup>I am reminded of your sincere faith, which first lived in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice and, I am persuaded, now lives in you also. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Appeal for Loyalty to Paul and the Gospel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_7"><sup>7</sup>For the Spirit God gave us does not make us timid, but gives us power, love and self-discipline. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_8"><sup>8</sup>So do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord or of me his prisoner. Rather, join with me in suffering for the gospel, by the power of God. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_9"><sup>9</sup>He has saved us and called us to a holy life—not because of anything we have done but because of his own purpose and grace. This grace was given us in Christ Jesus before the beginning of time, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_10"><sup>10</sup>but it has now been revealed through the appearing of our Savior, Christ Jesus, who has destroyed death and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_11"><sup>11</sup>And of this gospel I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_12"><sup>12</sup>That is why I am suffering as I am. Yet this is no cause for shame, because I know whom I have believed, and am convinced that he is able to guard what I have entrusted to him until that day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>What you heard from me, keep as the pattern of sound teaching, with faith and love in Christ Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_14"><sup>14</sup>Guard the good deposit that was entrusted to you—guard it with the help of the Holy Spirit who lives in us. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Examples of Disloyalty and Loyalty </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>You know that everyone in the province of Asia has deserted me, including Phygelus and Hermogenes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>May the Lord show mercy to the household of Onesiphorus, because he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_17"><sup>17</sup>On the contrary, when he was in Rome, he searched hard for me until he found me. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_1_18"><sup>18</sup>May the Lord grant that he will find mercy from the Lord on that day! You know very well in how many ways he helped me in Ephesus. <br/></span>
