---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Timothy 
bookNumber: 55
audio: \Audio\NIV\2ti\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>The Appeal Renewed </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>You then, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_2"><sup>2</sup>And the things you have heard me say in the presence of many witnesses entrust to reliable people who will also be qualified to teach others. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_3"><sup>3</sup>Join with me in suffering, like a good soldier of Christ Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_4"><sup>4</sup>No one serving as a soldier gets entangled in civilian affairs, but rather tries to please his commanding officer. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_5"><sup>5</sup>Similarly, anyone who competes as an athlete does not receive the victor’s crown except by competing according to the rules. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_6"><sup>6</sup>The hardworking farmer should be the first to receive a share of the crops. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_7"><sup>7</sup>Reflect on what I am saying, for the Lord will give you insight into all this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, descended from David. This is my gospel, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_9"><sup>9</sup>for which I am suffering even to the point of being chained like a criminal. But God’s word is not chained. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_10"><sup>10</sup>Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>Here is a trustworthy saying: <br/>  If we died with him, <br/>   we will also live with him; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_12">  <sup>12</sup>if we endure, <br/>   we will also reign with him. <br/>  If we disown him, <br/>   he will also disown us; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_13">  <sup>13</sup>if we are faithless, <br/>   he remains faithful, <br/>   for he cannot disown himself. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Dealing With False Teachers </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>Keep reminding God’s people of these things. Warn them before God against quarreling about words; it is of no value, and only ruins those who listen. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_15"><sup>15</sup>Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who does not need to be ashamed and who correctly handles the word of truth. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_16"><sup>16</sup>Avoid godless chatter, because those who indulge in it will become more and more ungodly. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_17"><sup>17</sup>Their teaching will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_18"><sup>18</sup>who have departed from the truth. They say that the resurrection has already taken place, and they destroy the faith of some. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_19"><sup>19</sup>Nevertheless, God’s solid foundation stands firm, sealed with this inscription: “The Lord knows those who are his,” and, “Everyone who confesses the name of the Lord must turn away from wickedness.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>In a large house there are articles not only of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay; some are for special purposes and some for common use. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_21"><sup>21</sup>Those who cleanse themselves from the latter will be instruments for special purposes, made holy, useful to the Master and prepared to do any good work. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_22"> <sup>22</sup>Flee the evil desires of youth and pursue righteousness, faith, love and peace, along with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_23"><sup>23</sup>Don’t have anything to do with foolish and stupid arguments, because you know they produce quarrels. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_24"><sup>24</sup>And the Lord’s servant must not be quarrelsome but must be kind to everyone, able to teach, not resentful. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_25"><sup>25</sup>Opponents must be gently instructed, in the hope that God will grant them repentance leading them to a knowledge of the truth, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_2_26"><sup>26</sup>and that they will come to their senses and escape from the trap of the devil, who has taken them captive to do his will. <br/></span>
