---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Timothy 
bookNumber: 55
audio: \Audio\NIV\2ti\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>But mark this: There will be terrible times in the last days. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_2"><sup>2</sup>People will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boastful, proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_3"><sup>3</sup>without love, unforgiving, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not lovers of the good, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_4"><sup>4</sup>treacherous, rash, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God— </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_5"><sup>5</sup>having a form of godliness but denying its power. Have nothing to do with such people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_6"> <sup>6</sup>They are the kind who worm their way into homes and gain control over gullible women, who are loaded down with sins and are swayed by all kinds of evil desires, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_7"><sup>7</sup>always learning but never able to come to a knowledge of the truth. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_8"><sup>8</sup>Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so also these teachers oppose the truth. They are men of depraved minds, who, as far as the faith is concerned, are rejected. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_9"><sup>9</sup>But they will not get very far because, as in the case of those men, their folly will be clear to everyone. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>You, however, know all about my teaching, my way of life, my purpose, faith, patience, love, endurance, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_11"><sup>11</sup>persecutions, sufferings—what kinds of things happened to me in Antioch, Iconium and Lystra, the persecutions I endured. Yet the Lord rescued me from all of them. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_12"><sup>12</sup>In fact, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_13"><sup>13</sup>while evildoers and impostors will go from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_14"><sup>14</sup>But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have become convinced of, because you know those from whom you learned it, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_15"><sup>15</sup>and how from infancy you have known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_16"><sup>16</sup>All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_3_17"><sup>17</sup>so that the servant of God<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or that you, a man of God,">⚓</a> may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. <br/></span>
