---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Timothy 
bookNumber: 55
audio: \Audio\NIV\2ti\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>A Final Charge to Timothy </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who will judge the living and the dead, and in view of his appearing and his kingdom, I give you this charge: </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_2"><sup>2</sup>Preach the word; be prepared in season and out of season; correct, rebuke and encourage—with great patience and careful instruction. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_3"><sup>3</sup>For the time will come when people will not put up with sound doctrine. Instead, to suit their own desires, they will gather around them a great number of teachers to say what their itching ears want to hear. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_4"><sup>4</sup>They will turn their ears away from the truth and turn aside to myths. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_5"><sup>5</sup>But you, keep your head in all situations, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, discharge all the duties of your ministry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>For I am already being poured out like a drink offering, and the time for my departure is near. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_7"><sup>7</sup>I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_8"><sup>8</sup>Now there is in store for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will award to me on that day—and not only to me, but also to all who have longed for his appearing. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Personal Remarks </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>Do your best to come to me quickly, </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_10"><sup>10</sup>for Demas, because he loved this world, has deserted me and has gone to Thessalonica. Crescens has gone to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_11"><sup>11</sup>Only Luke is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you, because he is helpful to me in my ministry. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_12"><sup>12</sup>I sent Tychicus to Ephesus. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_13"><sup>13</sup>When you come, bring the cloak that I left with Carpus at Troas, and my scrolls, especially the parchments. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_14"> <sup>14</sup>Alexander the metalworker did me a great deal of harm. The Lord will repay him for what he has done. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_15"><sup>15</sup>You too should be on your guard against him, because he strongly opposed our message. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_16"> <sup>16</sup>At my first defense, no one came to my support, but everyone deserted me. May it not be held against them. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_17"><sup>17</sup>But the Lord stood at my side and gave me strength, so that through me the message might be fully proclaimed and all the Gentiles might hear it. And I was delivered from the lion’s mouth. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_18"><sup>18</sup>The Lord will rescue me from every evil attack and will bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory for ever and ever. Amen. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Greetings </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>Greet Priscilla<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Prisca , a variant of Priscilla">⚓</a> and Aquila and the household of Onesiphorus. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_20"><sup>20</sup>Erastus stayed in Corinth, and I left Trophimus sick in Miletus. </span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_21"><sup>21</sup>Do your best to get here before winter. Eubulus greets you, and so do Pudens, Linus, Claudia and all the brothers and sisters.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2ti_4_22"> <sup>22</sup>The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you all. <br/></span>
