---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Micah 
bookNumber: 33
audio: \Audio\NIV\mi\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Human Plans and God’s Plans </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_2_1">  <sup>1</sup>Woe to those who plan iniquity, <br/>   to those who plot evil on their beds! <br/>  At morning’s light they carry it out <br/>   because it is in their power to do it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_2">  <sup>2</sup>They covet fields and seize them, <br/>   and houses, and take them. <br/>  They defraud people of their homes, <br/>   they rob them of their inheritance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_3"> <sup>3</sup>Therefore, the Lord says: <br/>  “I am planning disaster against this people, <br/>   from which you cannot save yourselves. <br/>  You will no longer walk proudly, <br/>   for it will be a time of calamity. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_4">  <sup>4</sup>In that day people will ridicule you; <br/>   they will taunt you with this mournful song: <br/>  ‘We are utterly ruined; <br/>   my people’s possession is divided up. <br/>  He takes it from me! <br/>   He assigns our fields to traitors.’ ” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_5">  <sup>5</sup>Therefore you will have no one in the assembly of the Lord<br/>   to divide the land by lot. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>False Prophets </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_2_6">  <sup>6</sup>“Do not prophesy,” their prophets say. <br/>   “Do not prophesy about these things; <br/>   disgrace will not overtake us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_7">  <sup>7</sup>You descendants of Jacob, should it be said, <br/>   “Does the Lord become<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Is the Spirit of the Lord">⚓</a> impatient? <br/>   Does he do such things?” <br/><br/>  “Do not my words do good <br/>   to the one whose ways are upright? <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_8">  <sup>8</sup>Lately my people have risen up <br/>   like an enemy. <br/>  You strip off the rich robe <br/>   from those who pass by without a care, <br/>   like men returning from battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_9">  <sup>9</sup>You drive the women of my people <br/>   from their pleasant homes. <br/>  You take away my blessing <br/>   from their children forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_10">  <sup>10</sup>Get up, go away! <br/>   For this is not your resting place, <br/>  because it is defiled, <br/>   it is ruined, beyond all remedy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_11">  <sup>11</sup>If a liar and deceiver comes and says, <br/>   ‘I will prophesy for you plenty of wine and beer,’ <br/>   that would be just the prophet for this people! <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Deliverance Promised </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_2_12">  <sup>12</sup>“I will surely gather all of you, Jacob; <br/>   I will surely bring together the remnant of Israel. <br/>  I will bring them together like sheep in a pen, <br/>   like a flock in its pasture; <br/>   the place will throng with people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_2_13">  <sup>13</sup>The One who breaks open the way will go up before them; <br/>   they will break through the gate and go out. <br/>  Their King will pass through before them, <br/>   the Lord at their head.” <br/></span>
