---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Micah 
bookNumber: 33
audio: \Audio\NIV\mi\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Leaders and Prophets Rebuked </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then I said, <br/>  “Listen, you leaders of Jacob, <br/>   you rulers of Israel. <br/>  Should you not embrace justice, <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_2">   <sup>2</sup>you who hate good and love evil; <br/>  who tear the skin from my people <br/>   and the flesh from their bones; <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_3">  <sup>3</sup>who eat my people’s flesh, <br/>   strip off their skin <br/>   and break their bones in pieces; <br/>  who chop them up like meat for the pan, <br/>   like flesh for the pot?” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_4">  <sup>4</sup>Then they will cry out to the Lord, <br/>   but he will not answer them. <br/>  At that time he will hide his face from them <br/>   because of the evil they have done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “As for the prophets <br/>   who lead my people astray, <br/>  they proclaim ‘peace’ <br/>   if they have something to eat, <br/>  but prepare to wage war against anyone <br/>   who refuses to feed them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_6">  <sup>6</sup>Therefore night will come over you, without visions, <br/>   and darkness, without divination. <br/>  The sun will set for the prophets, <br/>   and the day will go dark for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_7">  <sup>7</sup>The seers will be ashamed <br/>   and the diviners disgraced. <br/>  They will all cover their faces <br/>   because there is no answer from God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_8">  <sup>8</sup>But as for me, I am filled with power, <br/>   with the Spirit of the Lord, <br/>   and with justice and might, <br/>  to declare to Jacob his transgression, <br/>   to Israel his sin. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_9">  <sup>9</sup>Hear this, you leaders of Jacob, <br/>   you rulers of Israel, <br/>  who despise justice <br/>   and distort all that is right; <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_10">  <sup>10</sup>who build Zion with bloodshed, <br/>   and Jerusalem with wickedness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_11">  <sup>11</sup>Her leaders judge for a bribe, <br/>   her priests teach for a price, <br/>   and her prophets tell fortunes for money. <br/>  Yet they look for the Lord’s support and say, <br/>   “Is not the Lord among us? <br/>   No disaster will come upon us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_3_12">  <sup>12</sup>Therefore because of you, <br/>   Zion will be plowed like a field, <br/>  Jerusalem will become a heap of rubble, <br/>   the temple hill a mound overgrown with thickets. <br/></span>
