---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Micah 
bookNumber: 33
audio: \Audio\NIV\mi\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>The Mountain of the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the last days <br/>  the mountain of the Lord’s temple will be established <br/>   as the highest of the mountains; <br/>  it will be exalted above the hills, <br/>   and peoples will stream to it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_2"> <sup>2</sup>Many nations will come and say, <br/>  “Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, <br/>   to the temple of the God of Jacob. <br/>  He will teach us his ways, <br/>   so that we may walk in his paths.” <br/>  The law will go out from Zion, <br/>   the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_3">  <sup>3</sup>He will judge between many peoples <br/>   and will settle disputes for strong nations far and wide. <br/>  They will beat their swords into plowshares <br/>   and their spears into pruning hooks. <br/>  Nation will not take up sword against nation, <br/>   nor will they train for war anymore. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_4">  <sup>4</sup>Everyone will sit under their own vine <br/>   and under their own fig tree, <br/>  and no one will make them afraid, <br/>   for the Lord Almighty has spoken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_5">  <sup>5</sup>All the nations may walk <br/>   in the name of their gods, <br/>  but we will walk in the name of the Lord<br/>   our God for ever and ever. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Lord’s Plan </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>“In that day,” declares the Lord, <br/>  “I will gather the lame; <br/>   I will assemble the exiles <br/>   and those I have brought to grief. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_7">  <sup>7</sup>I will make the lame my remnant, <br/>   those driven away a strong nation. <br/>  The Lord will rule over them in Mount Zion <br/>   from that day and forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_8">  <sup>8</sup>As for you, watchtower of the flock, <br/>   stronghold<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or hill">⚓</a> of Daughter Zion, <br/>  the former dominion will be restored to you; <br/>   kingship will come to Daughter Jerusalem.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_9">  <sup>9</sup>Why do you now cry aloud— <br/>   have you no king<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or King">⚓</a> ? <br/>  Has your ruler<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Ruler">⚓</a> perished, <br/>   that pain seizes you like that of a woman in labor? <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_10">  <sup>10</sup>Writhe in agony, Daughter Zion, <br/>   like a woman in labor, <br/>  for now you must leave the city <br/>   to camp in the open field. <br/>  You will go to Babylon; <br/>   there you will be rescued. <br/>  There the Lord will redeem you <br/>   out of the hand of your enemies. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_11">  <sup>11</sup>But now many nations <br/>   are gathered against you. <br/>  They say, “Let her be defiled, <br/>   let our eyes gloat over Zion!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_12">  <sup>12</sup>But they do not know <br/>   the thoughts of the Lord; <br/>  they do not understand his plan, <br/>   that he has gathered them like sheaves to the threshing floor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_4_13">  <sup>13</sup>“Rise and thresh, Daughter Zion, <br/>   for I will give you horns of iron; <br/>  I will give you hooves of bronze, <br/>   and you will break to pieces many nations.” <br/>  You will devote their ill-gotten gains to the Lord, <br/>   their wealth to the Lord of all the earth. <br/></span>
