---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Micah 
bookNumber: 33
audio: \Audio\NIV\mi\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Israel’s Misery </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_7_1">  <sup>1</sup>What misery is mine! <br/>  I am like one who gathers summer fruit <br/>   at the gleaning of the vineyard; <br/>  there is no cluster of grapes to eat, <br/>   none of the early figs that I crave. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_2">  <sup>2</sup>The faithful have been swept from the land; <br/>   not one upright person remains. <br/>  Everyone lies in wait to shed blood; <br/>   they hunt each other with nets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_3">  <sup>3</sup>Both hands are skilled in doing evil; <br/>   the ruler demands gifts, <br/>  the judge accepts bribes, <br/>   the powerful dictate what they desire— <br/>   they all conspire together. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_4">  <sup>4</sup>The best of them is like a brier, <br/>   the most upright worse than a thorn hedge. <br/>  The day God visits you has come, <br/>   the day your watchmen sound the alarm. <br/>   Now is the time of your confusion. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_5">  <sup>5</sup>Do not trust a neighbor; <br/>   put no confidence in a friend. <br/>  Even with the woman who lies in your embrace <br/>   guard the words of your lips. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_6">  <sup>6</sup>For a son dishonors his father, <br/>   a daughter rises up against her mother, <br/>  a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law— <br/>   a man’s enemies are the members of his own household. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_7">  <sup>7</sup>But as for me, I watch in hope for the Lord, <br/>   I wait for God my Savior; <br/>   my God will hear me. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Israel Will Rise </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_7_8">  <sup>8</sup>Do not gloat over me, my enemy! <br/>   Though I have fallen, I will rise. <br/>  Though I sit in darkness, <br/>   the Lord will be my light. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_9">  <sup>9</sup>Because I have sinned against him, <br/>   I will bear the Lord’s wrath, <br/>  until he pleads my case <br/>   and upholds my cause. <br/>  He will bring me out into the light; <br/>   I will see his righteousness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_10">  <sup>10</sup>Then my enemy will see it <br/>   and will be covered with shame, <br/>  she who said to me, <br/>   “Where is the Lord your God?” <br/>  My eyes will see her downfall; <br/>   even now she will be trampled underfoot <br/>   like mire in the streets. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_11">  <sup>11</sup>The day for building your walls will come, <br/>   the day for extending your boundaries. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_12">  <sup>12</sup>In that day people will come to you <br/>   from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, <br/>  even from Egypt to the Euphrates <br/>   and from sea to sea <br/>   and from mountain to mountain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_13">  <sup>13</sup>The earth will become desolate because of its inhabitants, <br/>   as the result of their deeds. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Prayer and Praise </h3></div>
<span class="verse mi_7_14">  <sup>14</sup>Shepherd your people with your staff, <br/>   the flock of your inheritance, <br/>  which lives by itself in a forest, <br/>   in fertile pasturelands.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in the middle of Carmel">⚓</a><br/>  Let them feed in Bashan and Gilead <br/>   as in days long ago. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_15">  <sup>15</sup>“As in the days when you came out of Egypt, <br/>   I will show them my wonders.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_16">  <sup>16</sup>Nations will see and be ashamed, <br/>   deprived of all their power. <br/>  They will put their hands over their mouths <br/>   and their ears will become deaf. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_17">  <sup>17</sup>They will lick dust like a snake, <br/>   like creatures that crawl on the ground. <br/>  They will come trembling out of their dens; <br/>   they will turn in fear to the Lord our God <br/>   and will be afraid of you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_18">  <sup>18</sup>Who is a God like you, <br/>   who pardons sin and forgives the transgression <br/>   of the remnant of his inheritance? <br/>  You do not stay angry forever <br/>   but delight to show mercy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_19">  <sup>19</sup>You will again have compassion on us; <br/>   you will tread our sins underfoot <br/>   and hurl all our iniquities into the depths of the sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mi_7_20">  <sup>20</sup>You will be faithful to Jacob, <br/>   and show love to Abraham, <br/>  as you pledged on oath to our ancestors <br/>   in days long ago. <br/></span>
