---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Esther 
bookNumber: 17
audio: \Audio\NIV\et\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Queen Vashti Deposed </h3></div>
<span class="verse et_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what happened during the time of Xerxes,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Ahasuerus ; here and throughout Esther">⚓</a> the Xerxes who ruled over 127 provinces stretching from India to Cush<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the upper Nile region">⚓</a> : </span>
<span class="verse et_1_2"><sup>2</sup>At that time King Xerxes reigned from his royal throne in the citadel of Susa, </span>
<span class="verse et_1_3"><sup>3</sup>and in the third year of his reign he gave a banquet for all his nobles and officials. The military leaders of Persia and Media, the princes, and the nobles of the provinces were present. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>For a full 180 days he displayed the vast wealth of his kingdom and the splendor and glory of his majesty. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_5"><sup>5</sup>When these days were over, the king gave a banquet, lasting seven days, in the enclosed garden of the king’s palace, for all the people from the least to the greatest who were in the citadel of Susa. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_6"><sup>6</sup>The garden had hangings of white and blue linen, fastened with cords of white linen and purple material to silver rings on marble pillars. There were couches of gold and silver on a mosaic pavement of porphyry, marble, mother-of-pearl and other costly stones. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_7"><sup>7</sup>Wine was served in goblets of gold, each one different from the other, and the royal wine was abundant, in keeping with the king’s liberality. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_8"><sup>8</sup>By the king’s command each guest was allowed to drink with no restrictions, for the king instructed all the wine stewards to serve each man what he wished. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>Queen Vashti also gave a banquet for the women in the royal palace of King Xerxes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>On the seventh day, when King Xerxes was in high spirits from wine, he commanded the seven eunuchs who served him—Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar and Karkas— </span>
<span class="verse et_1_11"><sup>11</sup>to bring before him Queen Vashti, wearing her royal crown, in order to display her beauty to the people and nobles, for she was lovely to look at. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_12"><sup>12</sup>But when the attendants delivered the king’s command, Queen Vashti refused to come. Then the king became furious and burned with anger. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>Since it was customary for the king to consult experts in matters of law and justice, he spoke with the wise men who understood the times </span>
<span class="verse et_1_14"><sup>14</sup>and were closest to the king—Karshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena and Memukan, the seven nobles of Persia and Media who had special access to the king and were highest in the kingdom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>“According to law, what must be done to Queen Vashti?” he asked. “She has not obeyed the command of King Xerxes that the eunuchs have taken to her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then Memukan replied in the presence of the king and the nobles, “Queen Vashti has done wrong, not only against the king but also against all the nobles and the peoples of all the provinces of King Xerxes. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_17"><sup>17</sup>For the queen’s conduct will become known to all the women, and so they will despise their husbands and say, ‘King Xerxes commanded Queen Vashti to be brought before him, but she would not come.’ </span>
<span class="verse et_1_18"><sup>18</sup>This very day the Persian and Median women of the nobility who have heard about the queen’s conduct will respond to all the king’s nobles in the same way. There will be no end of disrespect and discord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Therefore, if it pleases the king, let him issue a royal decree and let it be written in the laws of Persia and Media, which cannot be repealed, that Vashti is never again to enter the presence of King Xerxes. Also let the king give her royal position to someone else who is better than she. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_20"><sup>20</sup>Then when the king’s edict is proclaimed throughout all his vast realm, all the women will respect their husbands, from the least to the greatest.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_1_21"> <sup>21</sup>The king and his nobles were pleased with this advice, so the king did as Memukan proposed. </span>
<span class="verse et_1_22"><sup>22</sup>He sent dispatches to all parts of the kingdom, to each province in its own script and to each people in their own language, proclaiming that every man should be ruler over his own household, using his native tongue. <br/></span>
