---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Esther 
bookNumber: 17
audio: \Audio\NIV\et\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Haman’s Plot to Destroy the Jews </h3></div>
<span class="verse et_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>After these events, King Xerxes honored Haman son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, elevating him and giving him a seat of honor higher than that of all the other nobles. </span>
<span class="verse et_3_2"><sup>2</sup>All the royal officials at the king’s gate knelt down and paid honor to Haman, for the king had commanded this concerning him. But Mordecai would not kneel down or pay him honor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_3_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then the royal officials at the king’s gate asked Mordecai, “Why do you disobey the king’s command?” </span>
<span class="verse et_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Day after day they spoke to him but he refused to comply. Therefore they told Haman about it to see whether Mordecai’s behavior would be tolerated, for he had told them he was a Jew. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>When Haman saw that Mordecai would not kneel down or pay him honor, he was enraged. </span>
<span class="verse et_3_6"><sup>6</sup>Yet having learned who Mordecai’s people were, he scorned the idea of killing only Mordecai. Instead Haman looked for a way to destroy all Mordecai’s people, the Jews, throughout the whole kingdom of Xerxes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>In the twelfth year of King Xerxes, in the first month, the month of Nisan, the <em>pur</em> (that is, the lot) was cast in the presence of Haman to select a day and month. And the lot fell on<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew does not have And the lot fell on.">⚓</a> the twelfth month, the month of Adar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_3_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Haman said to King Xerxes, “There is a certain people dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of your kingdom who keep themselves separate. Their customs are different from those of all other people, and they do not obey the king’s laws; it is not in the king’s best interest to tolerate them. </span>
<span class="verse et_3_9"><sup>9</sup>If it pleases the king, let a decree be issued to destroy them, and I will give ten thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 375 tons or about 340 metric tons">⚓</a> of silver to the king’s administrators for the royal treasury.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>So the king took his signet ring from his finger and gave it to Haman son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, the enemy of the Jews. </span>
<span class="verse et_3_11"><sup>11</sup>“Keep the money,” the king said to Haman, “and do with the people as you please.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then on the thirteenth day of the first month the royal secretaries were summoned. They wrote out in the script of each province and in the language of each people all Haman’s orders to the king’s satraps, the governors of the various provinces and the nobles of the various peoples. These were written in the name of King Xerxes himself and sealed with his own ring. </span>
<span class="verse et_3_13"><sup>13</sup>Dispatches were sent by couriers to all the king’s provinces with the order to destroy, kill and annihilate all the Jews—young and old, women and children—on a single day, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, the month of Adar, and to plunder their goods. </span>
<span class="verse et_3_14"><sup>14</sup>A copy of the text of the edict was to be issued as law in every province and made known to the people of every nationality so they would be ready for that day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>The couriers went out, spurred on by the king’s command, and the edict was issued in the citadel of Susa. The king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Susa was bewildered. <br/></span>
