---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Esther 
bookNumber: 17
audio: \Audio\NIV\et\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Mordecai Persuades Esther to Help </h3></div>
<span class="verse et_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Mordecai learned of all that had been done, he tore his clothes, put on sackcloth and ashes, and went out into the city, wailing loudly and bitterly. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_2"><sup>2</sup>But he went only as far as the king’s gate, because no one clothed in sackcloth was allowed to enter it. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_3"><sup>3</sup>In every province to which the edict and order of the king came, there was great mourning among the Jews, with fasting, weeping and wailing. Many lay in sackcloth and ashes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>When Esther’s eunuchs and female attendants came and told her about Mordecai, she was in great distress. She sent clothes for him to put on instead of his sackcloth, but he would not accept them. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_5"><sup>5</sup>Then Esther summoned Hathak, one of the king’s eunuchs assigned to attend her, and ordered him to find out what was troubling Mordecai and why. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Hathak went out to Mordecai in the open square of the city in front of the king’s gate. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_7"><sup>7</sup>Mordecai told him everything that had happened to him, including the exact amount of money Haman had promised to pay into the royal treasury for the destruction of the Jews. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_8"><sup>8</sup>He also gave him a copy of the text of the edict for their annihilation, which had been published in Susa, to show to Esther and explain it to her, and he told him to instruct her to go into the king’s presence to beg for mercy and plead with him for her people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>Hathak went back and reported to Esther what Mordecai had said. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_10"><sup>10</sup>Then she instructed him to say to Mordecai, </span>
<span class="verse et_4_11"><sup>11</sup>“All the king’s officials and the people of the royal provinces know that for any man or woman who approaches the king in the inner court without being summoned the king has but one law: that they be put to death unless the king extends the gold scepter to them and spares their lives. But thirty days have passed since I was called to go to the king.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_12"> <sup>12</sup>When Esther’s words were reported to Mordecai, </span>
<span class="verse et_4_13"><sup>13</sup>he sent back this answer: “Do not think that because you are in the king’s house you alone of all the Jews will escape. </span>
<span class="verse et_4_14"><sup>14</sup>For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance for the Jews will arise from another place, but you and your father’s family will perish. And who knows but that you have come to your royal position for such a time as this?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Esther sent this reply to Mordecai: </span>
<span class="verse et_4_16"><sup>16</sup>“Go, gather together all the Jews who are in Susa, and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my attendants will fast as you do. When this is done, I will go to the king, even though it is against the law. And if I perish, I perish.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>So Mordecai went away and carried out all of Esther’s instructions. <br/></span>
