---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Esther 
bookNumber: 17
audio: \Audio\NIV\et\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Mordecai Honored </h3></div>
<span class="verse et_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>That night the king could not sleep; so he ordered the book of the chronicles, the record of his reign, to be brought in and read to him. </span>
<span class="verse et_6_2"><sup>2</sup>It was found recorded there that Mordecai had exposed Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king’s officers who guarded the doorway, who had conspired to assassinate King Xerxes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_6_3"> <sup>3</sup>“What honor and recognition has Mordecai received for this?” the king asked. <br/> “Nothing has been done for him,” his attendants answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_6_4"> <sup>4</sup>The king said, “Who is in the court?” Now Haman had just entered the outer court of the palace to speak to the king about impaling Mordecai on the pole he had set up for him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_6_5"> <sup>5</sup>His attendants answered, “Haman is standing in the court.” <br/> “Bring him in,” the king ordered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>When Haman entered, the king asked him, “What should be done for the man the king delights to honor?” <br/> Now Haman thought to himself, “Who is there that the king would rather honor than me?” </span>
<span class="verse et_6_7"><sup>7</sup>So he answered the king, “For the man the king delights to honor, </span>
<span class="verse et_6_8"><sup>8</sup>have them bring a royal robe the king has worn and a horse the king has ridden, one with a royal crest placed on its head. </span>
<span class="verse et_6_9"><sup>9</sup>Then let the robe and horse be entrusted to one of the king’s most noble princes. Let them robe the man the king delights to honor, and lead him on the horse through the city streets, proclaiming before him, ‘This is what is done for the man the king delights to honor!’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_6_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Go at once,” the king commanded Haman. “Get the robe and the horse and do just as you have suggested for Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the king’s gate. Do not neglect anything you have recommended.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>So Haman got the robe and the horse. He robed Mordecai, and led him on horseback through the city streets, proclaiming before him, “This is what is done for the man the king delights to honor!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>Afterward Mordecai returned to the king’s gate. But Haman rushed home, with his head covered in grief, </span>
<span class="verse et_6_13"><sup>13</sup>and told Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had happened to him. <br/> His advisers and his wife Zeresh said to him, “Since Mordecai, before whom your downfall has started, is of Jewish origin, you cannot stand against him—you will surely come to ruin!” </span>
<span class="verse et_6_14"><sup>14</sup>While they were still talking with him, the king’s eunuchs arrived and hurried Haman away to the banquet Esther had prepared. <br/></span>
