---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Esther 
bookNumber: 17
audio: \Audio\NIV\et\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Haman Impaled </h3></div>
<span class="verse et_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>So the king and Haman went to Queen Esther’s banquet, </span>
<span class="verse et_7_2"><sup>2</sup>and as they were drinking wine on the second day, the king again asked, “Queen Esther, what is your petition? It will be given you. What is your request? Even up to half the kingdom, it will be granted.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_7_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then Queen Esther answered, “If I have found favor with you, Your Majesty, and if it pleases you, grant me my life—this is my petition. And spare my people—this is my request. </span>
<span class="verse et_7_4"><sup>4</sup>For I and my people have been sold to be destroyed, killed and annihilated. If we had merely been sold as male and female slaves, I would have kept quiet, because no such distress would justify disturbing the king.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or quiet, but the compensation our adversary offers cannot be compared with the loss the king would suffer">⚓</a> ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_7_5"> <sup>5</sup>King Xerxes asked Queen Esther, “Who is he? Where is he—the man who has dared to do such a thing?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_7_6"> <sup>6</sup>Esther said, “An adversary and enemy! This vile Haman!” <br/> Then Haman was terrified before the king and queen. </span>
<span class="verse et_7_7"><sup>7</sup>The king got up in a rage, left his wine and went out into the palace garden. But Haman, realizing that the king had already decided his fate, stayed behind to beg Queen Esther for his life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse et_7_8"> <sup>8</sup>Just as the king returned from the palace garden to the banquet hall, Haman was falling on the couch where Esther was reclining. <br/> The king exclaimed, “Will he even molest the queen while she is with me in the house?” <br/> As soon as the word left the king’s mouth, they covered Haman’s face. </span>
<span class="verse et_7_9"><sup>9</sup>Then Harbona, one of the eunuchs attending the king, said, “A pole reaching to a height of fifty cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 75 feet or about 23 meters">⚓</a> stands by Haman’s house. He had it set up for Mordecai, who spoke up to help the king.” <br/> The king said, “Impale him on it!” </span>
<span class="verse et_7_10"><sup>10</sup>So they impaled Haman on the pole he had set up for Mordecai. Then the king’s fury subsided. <br/></span>
