---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Amos 
bookNumber: 30
audio: \Audio\NIV\am\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Locusts, Fire and a Plumb Line </h3></div>
<span class="verse am_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord showed me: He was preparing swarms of locusts after the king’s share had been harvested and just as the late crops were coming up. </span>
<span class="verse am_7_2"><sup>2</sup>When they had stripped the land clean, I cried out, “Sovereign Lord, forgive! How can Jacob survive? He is so small!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_7_3"> <sup>3</sup>So the Lord relented. <br/> “This will not happen,” the Lord said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord showed me: The Sovereign Lord was calling for judgment by fire; it dried up the great deep and devoured the land. </span>
<span class="verse am_7_5"><sup>5</sup>Then I cried out, “Sovereign Lord, I beg you, stop! How can Jacob survive? He is so small!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_7_6"> <sup>6</sup>So the Lord relented. <br/> “This will not happen either,” the Sovereign Lord said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_7_7"> <sup>7</sup>This is what he showed me: The Lord was standing by a wall that had been built true to plumb,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.">⚓</a> with a plumb line<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain; also in verse 8.">⚓</a> in his hand. </span>
<span class="verse am_7_8"><sup>8</sup>And the Lord asked me, “What do you see, Amos?” <br/> “A plumb line,” I replied. <br/> Then the Lord said, “Look, I am setting a plumb line among my people Israel; I will spare them no longer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_7_9">  <sup>9</sup>“The high places of Isaac will be destroyed <br/>   and the sanctuaries of Israel will be ruined; <br/>   with my sword I will rise against the house of Jeroboam.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Amos and Amaziah </h3></div>
<span class="verse am_7_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent a message to Jeroboam king of Israel: “Amos is raising a conspiracy against you in the very heart of Israel. The land cannot bear all his words. </span>
<span class="verse am_7_11"><sup>11</sup>For this is what Amos is saying: <br/>  “ ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword, <br/>   and Israel will surely go into exile, <br/>   away from their native land.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_7_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then Amaziah said to Amos, “Get out, you seer! Go back to the land of Judah. Earn your bread there and do your prophesying there. </span>
<span class="verse am_7_13"><sup>13</sup>Don’t prophesy anymore at Bethel, because this is the king’s sanctuary and the temple of the kingdom.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_7_14"> <sup>14</sup>Amos answered Amaziah, “I was neither a prophet nor the son of a prophet, but I was a shepherd, and I also took care of sycamore-fig trees. </span>
<span class="verse am_7_15"><sup>15</sup>But the Lord took me from tending the flock and said to me, ‘Go, prophesy to my people Israel.’ </span>
<span class="verse am_7_16"><sup>16</sup>Now then, hear the word of the Lord. You say, <br/>  “ ‘Do not prophesy against Israel, <br/>   and stop preaching against the descendants of Isaac.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_7_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Therefore this is what the Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Your wife will become a prostitute in the city, <br/>   and your sons and daughters will fall by the sword. <br/>  Your land will be measured and divided up, <br/>   and you yourself will die in a pagan<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew an unclean">⚓</a> country. <br/>  And Israel will surely go into exile, <br/>   away from their native land.’ ” <br/></span>
