---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Amos 
bookNumber: 30
audio: \Audio\NIV\am\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>A Basket of Ripe Fruit </h3></div>
<span class="verse am_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord showed me: a basket of ripe fruit. </span>
<span class="verse am_8_2"><sup>2</sup>“What do you see, Amos?” he asked. <br/> “A basket of ripe fruit,” I answered. <br/> Then the Lord said to me, “The time is ripe for my people Israel; I will spare them no longer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_3"> <sup>3</sup>“In that day,” declares the Sovereign Lord, “the songs in the temple will turn to wailing.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or “the temple singers will wail">⚓</a> Many, many bodies—flung everywhere! Silence!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_4">  <sup>4</sup>Hear this, you who trample the needy <br/>   and do away with the poor of the land, <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_5"> <sup>5</sup>saying, <br/>  “When will the New Moon be over <br/>   that we may sell grain, <br/>  and the Sabbath be ended <br/>   that we may market wheat?”— <br/>  skimping on the measure, <br/>   boosting the price <br/>   and cheating with dishonest scales, <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_6">  <sup>6</sup>buying the poor with silver <br/>   and the needy for a pair of sandals, <br/>   selling even the sweepings with the wheat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_7"> <sup>7</sup>The Lord has sworn by himself, the Pride of Jacob: “I will never forget anything they have done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_8">  <sup>8</sup>“Will not the land tremble for this, <br/>   and all who live in it mourn? <br/>  The whole land will rise like the Nile; <br/>   it will be stirred up and then sink <br/>   like the river of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>“In that day,” declares the Sovereign Lord, <br/>  “I will make the sun go down at noon <br/>   and darken the earth in broad daylight. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_10">  <sup>10</sup>I will turn your religious festivals into mourning <br/>   and all your singing into weeping. <br/>  I will make all of you wear sackcloth <br/>   and shave your heads. <br/>  I will make that time like mourning for an only son <br/>   and the end of it like a bitter day. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_11">  <sup>11</sup>“The days are coming,” declares the Sovereign Lord, <br/>   “when I will send a famine through the land— <br/>  not a famine of food or a thirst for water, <br/>   but a famine of hearing the words of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_12">  <sup>12</sup>People will stagger from sea to sea <br/>   and wander from north to east, <br/>  searching for the word of the Lord, <br/>   but they will not find it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_13"> <sup>13</sup>“In that day <br/>  “the lovely young women and strong young men <br/>   will faint because of thirst. <br/></span>
<span class="verse am_8_14">  <sup>14</sup>Those who swear by the sin of Samaria— <br/>   who say, ‘As surely as your god lives, Dan,’ <br/>   or, ‘As surely as the god<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew the way">⚓</a> of Beersheba lives’— <br/>   they will fall, never to rise again.” <br/></span>
