---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Crossing the Jordan </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Early in the morning Joshua and all the Israelites set out from Shittim and went to the Jordan, where they camped before crossing over. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_2"><sup>2</sup>After three days the officers went throughout the camp, </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_3"><sup>3</sup>giving orders to the people: “When you see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, and the Levitical priests carrying it, you are to move out from your positions and follow it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Then you will know which way to go, since you have never been this way before. But keep a distance of about two thousand cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3,000 feet or about 900 meters">⚓</a> between you and the ark; do not go near it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>Joshua told the people, “Consecrate yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do amazing things among you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_3_6"> <sup>6</sup>Joshua said to the priests, “Take up the ark of the covenant and pass on ahead of the people.” So they took it up and went ahead of them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>And the Lord said to Joshua, “Today I will begin to exalt you in the eyes of all Israel, so they may know that I am with you as I was with Moses. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_8"><sup>8</sup>Tell the priests who carry the ark of the covenant: ‘When you reach the edge of the Jordan’s waters, go and stand in the river.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_3_9"> <sup>9</sup>Joshua said to the Israelites, “Come here and listen to the words of the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_10"><sup>10</sup>This is how you will know that the living God is among you and that he will certainly drive out before you the Canaanites, Hittites, Hivites, Perizzites, Girgashites, Amorites and Jebusites. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_11"><sup>11</sup>See, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth will go into the Jordan ahead of you. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_12"><sup>12</sup>Now then, choose twelve men from the tribes of Israel, one from each tribe. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_13"><sup>13</sup>And as soon as the priests who carry the ark of the Lord—the Lord of all the earth—set foot in the Jordan, its waters flowing downstream will be cut off and stand up in a heap.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>So when the people broke camp to cross the Jordan, the priests carrying the ark of the covenant went ahead of them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_15"><sup>15</sup>Now the Jordan is at flood stage all during harvest. Yet as soon as the priests who carried the ark reached the Jordan and their feet touched the water’s edge, </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_16"><sup>16</sup>the water from upstream stopped flowing. It piled up in a heap a great distance away, at a town called Adam in the vicinity of Zarethan, while the water flowing down to the Sea of the Arabah (that is, the Dead Sea) was completely cut off. So the people crossed over opposite Jericho. </span>
<span class="verse gios_3_17"><sup>17</sup>The priests who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord stopped in the middle of the Jordan and stood on dry ground, while all Israel passed by until the whole nation had completed the crossing on dry ground. <br/></span>
