---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1></div>
<span class="verse gios_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the whole nation had finished crossing the Jordan, the Lord said to Joshua, </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_2"><sup>2</sup>“Choose twelve men from among the people, one from each tribe, </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_3"><sup>3</sup>and tell them to take up twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan, from right where the priests are standing, and carry them over with you and put them down at the place where you stay tonight.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Joshua called together the twelve men he had appointed from the Israelites, one from each tribe, </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_5"><sup>5</sup>and said to them, “Go over before the ark of the Lord your God into the middle of the Jordan. Each of you is to take up a stone on his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the Israelites, </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_6"><sup>6</sup>to serve as a sign among you. In the future, when your children ask you, ‘What do these stones mean?’ </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_7"><sup>7</sup>tell them that the flow of the Jordan was cut off before the ark of the covenant of the Lord. When it crossed the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off. These stones are to be a memorial to the people of Israel forever.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_4_8"> <sup>8</sup>So the Israelites did as Joshua commanded them. They took twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of the Israelites, as the Lord had told Joshua; and they carried them over with them to their camp, where they put them down. </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_9"><sup>9</sup>Joshua set up the twelve stones that had been<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Joshua also set up twelve stones">⚓</a> in the middle of the Jordan at the spot where the priests who carried the ark of the covenant had stood. And they are there to this day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>Now the priests who carried the ark remained standing in the middle of the Jordan until everything the Lord had commanded Joshua was done by the people, just as Moses had directed Joshua. The people hurried over, </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_11"><sup>11</sup>and as soon as all of them had crossed, the ark of the Lord and the priests came to the other side while the people watched. </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_12"><sup>12</sup>The men of Reuben, Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh crossed over, ready for battle, in front of the Israelites, as Moses had directed them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_13"><sup>13</sup>About forty thousand armed for battle crossed over before the Lord to the plains of Jericho for war. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_4_14"> <sup>14</sup>That day the Lord exalted Joshua in the sight of all Israel; and they stood in awe of him all the days of his life, just as they had stood in awe of Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the Lord said to Joshua, </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_16"><sup>16</sup>“Command the priests carrying the ark of the covenant law to come up out of the Jordan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>So Joshua commanded the priests, “Come up out of the Jordan.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_4_18"> <sup>18</sup>And the priests came up out of the river carrying the ark of the covenant of the Lord. No sooner had they set their feet on the dry ground than the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and ran at flood stage as before. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>On the tenth day of the first month the people went up from the Jordan and camped at Gilgal on the eastern border of Jericho. </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_20"><sup>20</sup>And Joshua set up at Gilgal the twelve stones they had taken out of the Jordan. </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_21"><sup>21</sup>He said to the Israelites, “In the future when your descendants ask their parents, ‘What do these stones mean?’ </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_22"><sup>22</sup>tell them, ‘Israel crossed the Jordan on dry ground.’ </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_23"><sup>23</sup>For the Lord your God dried up the Jordan before you until you had crossed over. The Lord your God did to the Jordan what he had done to the Red Sea<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a> when he dried it up before us until we had crossed over. </span>
<span class="verse gios_4_24"><sup>24</sup>He did this so that all the peoples of the earth might know that the hand of the Lord is powerful and so that you might always fear the Lord your God.” <br/></span>
