---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1></div>
<span class="verse gios_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now when all the Amorite kings west of the Jordan and all the Canaanite kings along the coast heard how the Lord had dried up the Jordan before the Israelites until they<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Another textual tradition we">⚓</a> had crossed over, their hearts melted in fear and they no longer had the courage to face the Israelites. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Circumcision and Passover at Gilgal </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_5_2"> <sup>2</sup>At that time the Lord said to Joshua, “Make flint knives and circumcise the Israelites again.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_5_3"><sup>3</sup>So Joshua made flint knives and circumcised the Israelites at Gibeath Haaraloth.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means the hill of foreskins.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_5_4"> <sup>4</sup>Now this is why he did so: All those who came out of Egypt—all the men of military age—died in the wilderness on the way after leaving Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse gios_5_5"><sup>5</sup>All the people that came out had been circumcised, but all the people born in the wilderness during the journey from Egypt had not. </span>
<span class="verse gios_5_6"><sup>6</sup>The Israelites had moved about in the wilderness forty years until all the men who were of military age when they left Egypt had died, since they had not obeyed the Lord. For the Lord had sworn to them that they would not see the land he had solemnly promised their ancestors to give us, a land flowing with milk and honey. </span>
<span class="verse gios_5_7"><sup>7</sup>So he raised up their sons in their place, and these were the ones Joshua circumcised. They were still uncircumcised because they had not been circumcised on the way. </span>
<span class="verse gios_5_8"><sup>8</sup>And after the whole nation had been circumcised, they remained where they were in camp until they were healed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_5_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then the Lord said to Joshua, “Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you.” So the place has been called Gilgal<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for roll.">⚓</a> to this day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_5_10"> <sup>10</sup>On the evening of the fourteenth day of the month, while camped at Gilgal on the plains of Jericho, the Israelites celebrated the Passover. </span>
<span class="verse gios_5_11"><sup>11</sup>The day after the Passover, that very day, they ate some of the produce of the land: unleavened bread and roasted grain. </span>
<span class="verse gios_5_12"><sup>12</sup>The manna stopped the day after<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the day">⚓</a> they ate this food from the land; there was no longer any manna for the Israelites, but that year they ate the produce of Canaan. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Fall of Jericho </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>Now when Joshua was near Jericho, he looked up and saw a man standing in front of him with a drawn sword in his hand. Joshua went up to him and asked, “Are you for us or for our enemies?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_5_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Neither,” he replied, “but as commander of the army of the Lord I have now come.” Then Joshua fell facedown to the ground in reverence, and asked him, “What message does my Lord<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or lord">⚓</a> have for his servant?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_5_15"> <sup>15</sup>The commander of the Lord’s army replied, “Take off your sandals, for the place where you are standing is holy.” And Joshua did so. <br/></span>
