---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1></div>
<span class="verse gios_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now the gates of Jericho were securely barred because of the Israelites. No one went out and no one came in. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then the Lord said to Joshua, “See, I have delivered Jericho into your hands, along with its king and its fighting men. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_3"><sup>3</sup>March around the city once with all the armed men. Do this for six days. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_4"><sup>4</sup>Have seven priests carry trumpets of rams’ horns in front of the ark. On the seventh day, march around the city seven times, with the priests blowing the trumpets. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_5"><sup>5</sup>When you hear them sound a long blast on the trumpets, have the whole army give a loud shout; then the wall of the city will collapse and the army will go up, everyone straight in.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Joshua son of Nun called the priests and said to them, “Take up the ark of the covenant of the Lord and have seven priests carry trumpets in front of it.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_7"><sup>7</sup>And he ordered the army, “Advance! March around the city, with an armed guard going ahead of the ark of the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>When Joshua had spoken to the people, the seven priests carrying the seven trumpets before the Lord went forward, blowing their trumpets, and the ark of the Lord’s covenant followed them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_9"><sup>9</sup>The armed guard marched ahead of the priests who blew the trumpets, and the rear guard followed the ark. All this time the trumpets were sounding. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_10"><sup>10</sup>But Joshua had commanded the army, “Do not give a war cry, do not raise your voices, do not say a word until the day I tell you to shout. Then shout!” </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_11"><sup>11</sup>So he had the ark of the Lord carried around the city, circling it once. Then the army returned to camp and spent the night there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>Joshua got up early the next morning and the priests took up the ark of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_13"><sup>13</sup>The seven priests carrying the seven trumpets went forward, marching before the ark of the Lord and blowing the trumpets. The armed men went ahead of them and the rear guard followed the ark of the Lord, while the trumpets kept sounding. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_14"><sup>14</sup>So on the second day they marched around the city once and returned to the camp. They did this for six days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>On the seventh day, they got up at daybreak and marched around the city seven times in the same manner, except that on that day they circled the city seven times. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_16"><sup>16</sup>The seventh time around, when the priests sounded the trumpet blast, Joshua commanded the army, “Shout! For the Lord has given you the city! </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_17"><sup>17</sup>The city and all that is in it are to be devoted<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them; also in verses 18 and 21.">⚓</a> to the Lord. Only Rahab the prostitute and all who are with her in her house shall be spared, because she hid the spies we sent. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_18"><sup>18</sup>But keep away from the devoted things, so that you will not bring about your own destruction by taking any of them. Otherwise you will make the camp of Israel liable to destruction and bring trouble on it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_19"><sup>19</sup>All the silver and gold and the articles of bronze and iron are sacred to the Lord and must go into his treasury.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_20"> <sup>20</sup>When the trumpets sounded, the army shouted, and at the sound of the trumpet, when the men gave a loud shout, the wall collapsed; so everyone charged straight in, and they took the city. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_21"><sup>21</sup>They devoted the city to the Lord and destroyed with the sword every living thing in it—men and women, young and old, cattle, sheep and donkeys. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_22"> <sup>22</sup>Joshua said to the two men who had spied out the land, “Go into the prostitute’s house and bring her out and all who belong to her, in accordance with your oath to her.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_23"><sup>23</sup>So the young men who had done the spying went in and brought out Rahab, her father and mother, her brothers and sisters and all who belonged to her. They brought out her entire family and put them in a place outside the camp of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then they burned the whole city and everything in it, but they put the silver and gold and the articles of bronze and iron into the treasury of the Lord’s house. </span>
<span class="verse gios_6_25"><sup>25</sup>But Joshua spared Rahab the prostitute, with her family and all who belonged to her, because she hid the men Joshua had sent as spies to Jericho—and she lives among the Israelites to this day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_26"> <sup>26</sup>At that time Joshua pronounced this solemn oath: “Cursed before the Lord is the one who undertakes to rebuild this city, Jericho: <br/>  “At the cost of his firstborn son <br/>   he will lay its foundations; <br/>  at the cost of his youngest <br/>   he will set up its gates.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_6_27"> <sup>27</sup>So the Lord was with Joshua, and his fame spread throughout the land. <br/></span>
