---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>Ai Destroyed </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Joshua, “Do not be afraid; do not be discouraged. Take the whole army with you, and go up and attack Ai. For I have delivered into your hands the king of Ai, his people, his city and his land. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_2"><sup>2</sup>You shall do to Ai and its king as you did to Jericho and its king, except that you may carry off their plunder and livestock for yourselves. Set an ambush behind the city.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_3"> <sup>3</sup>So Joshua and the whole army moved out to attack Ai. He chose thirty thousand of his best fighting men and sent them out at night </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_4"><sup>4</sup>with these orders: “Listen carefully. You are to set an ambush behind the city. Don’t go very far from it. All of you be on the alert. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_5"><sup>5</sup>I and all those with me will advance on the city, and when the men come out against us, as they did before, we will flee from them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_6"><sup>6</sup>They will pursue us until we have lured them away from the city, for they will say, ‘They are running away from us as they did before.’ So when we flee from them, </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_7"><sup>7</sup>you are to rise up from ambush and take the city. The Lord your God will give it into your hand. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_8"><sup>8</sup>When you have taken the city, set it on fire. Do what the Lord has commanded. See to it; you have my orders.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Joshua sent them off, and they went to the place of ambush and lay in wait between Bethel and Ai, to the west of Ai—but Joshua spent that night with the people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_10"> <sup>10</sup>Early the next morning Joshua mustered his army, and he and the leaders of Israel marched before them to Ai. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_11"><sup>11</sup>The entire force that was with him marched up and approached the city and arrived in front of it. They set up camp north of Ai, with the valley between them and the city. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_12"><sup>12</sup>Joshua had taken about five thousand men and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, to the west of the city. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_13"><sup>13</sup>So the soldiers took up their positions—with the main camp to the north of the city and the ambush to the west of it. That night Joshua went into the valley. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_14"> <sup>14</sup>When the king of Ai saw this, he and all the men of the city hurried out early in the morning to meet Israel in battle at a certain place overlooking the Arabah. But he did not know that an ambush had been set against him behind the city. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_15"><sup>15</sup>Joshua and all Israel let themselves be driven back before them, and they fled toward the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_16"><sup>16</sup>All the men of Ai were called to pursue them, and they pursued Joshua and were lured away from the city. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_17"><sup>17</sup>Not a man remained in Ai or Bethel who did not go after Israel. They left the city open and went in pursuit of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then the Lord said to Joshua, “Hold out toward Ai the javelin that is in your hand, for into your hand I will deliver the city.” So Joshua held out toward the city the javelin that was in his hand. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_19"><sup>19</sup>As soon as he did this, the men in the ambush rose quickly from their position and rushed forward. They entered the city and captured it and quickly set it on fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_20"> <sup>20</sup>The men of Ai looked back and saw the smoke of the city rising up into the sky, but they had no chance to escape in any direction; the Israelites who had been fleeing toward the wilderness had turned back against their pursuers. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_21"><sup>21</sup>For when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city and that smoke was going up from it, they turned around and attacked the men of Ai. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_22"><sup>22</sup>Those in the ambush also came out of the city against them, so that they were caught in the middle, with Israelites on both sides. Israel cut them down, leaving them neither survivors nor fugitives. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_23"><sup>23</sup>But they took the king of Ai alive and brought him to Joshua. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_24"> <sup>24</sup>When Israel had finished killing all the men of Ai in the fields and in the wilderness where they had chased them, and when every one of them had been put to the sword, all the Israelites returned to Ai and killed those who were in it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_25"><sup>25</sup>Twelve thousand men and women fell that day—all the people of Ai. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_26"><sup>26</sup>For Joshua did not draw back the hand that held out his javelin until he had destroyed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them.">⚓</a> all who lived in Ai. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_27"><sup>27</sup>But Israel did carry off for themselves the livestock and plunder of this city, as the Lord had instructed Joshua. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_28"> <sup>28</sup>So Joshua burned Ai<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means the ruin .">⚓</a> and made it a permanent heap of ruins, a desolate place to this day. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_29"><sup>29</sup>He impaled the body of the king of Ai on a pole and left it there until evening. At sunset, Joshua ordered them to take the body from the pole and throw it down at the entrance of the city gate. And they raised a large pile of rocks over it, which remains to this day. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Covenant Renewed at Mount Ebal </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_8_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then Joshua built on Mount Ebal an altar to the Lord, the God of Israel, </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_31"><sup>31</sup>as Moses the servant of the Lord had commanded the Israelites. He built it according to what is written in the Book of the Law of Moses—an altar of uncut stones, on which no iron tool had been used. On it they offered to the Lord burnt offerings and sacrificed fellowship offerings. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_32"><sup>32</sup>There, in the presence of the Israelites, Joshua wrote on stones a copy of the law of Moses. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_33"><sup>33</sup>All the Israelites, with their elders, officials and judges, were standing on both sides of the ark of the covenant of the Lord, facing the Levitical priests who carried it. Both the foreigners living among them and the native-born were there. Half of the people stood in front of Mount Gerizim and half of them in front of Mount Ebal, as Moses the servant of the Lord had formerly commanded when he gave instructions to bless the people of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_8_34"> <sup>34</sup>Afterward, Joshua read all the words of the law—the blessings and the curses—just as it is written in the Book of the Law. </span>
<span class="verse gios_8_35"><sup>35</sup>There was not a word of all that Moses had commanded that Joshua did not read to the whole assembly of Israel, including the women and children, and the foreigners who lived among them. <br/></span>
