---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Sun Stands Still </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Adoni-Zedek king of Jerusalem heard that Joshua had taken Ai and totally destroyed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the Lord, often by totally destroying them; also in verses 28, 35, 37, 39 and 40.">⚓</a> it, doing to Ai and its king as he had done to Jericho and its king, and that the people of Gibeon had made a treaty of peace with Israel and had become their allies. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_2"><sup>2</sup>He and his people were very much alarmed at this, because Gibeon was an important city, like one of the royal cities; it was larger than Ai, and all its men were good fighters. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_3"><sup>3</sup>So Adoni-Zedek king of Jerusalem appealed to Hoham king of Hebron, Piram king of Jarmuth, Japhia king of Lachish and Debir king of Eglon. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_4"><sup>4</sup>“Come up and help me attack Gibeon,” he said, “because it has made peace with Joshua and the Israelites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the five kings of the Amorites—the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish and Eglon—joined forces. They moved up with all their troops and took up positions against Gibeon and attacked it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_6"> <sup>6</sup>The Gibeonites then sent word to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal: “Do not abandon your servants. Come up to us quickly and save us! Help us, because all the Amorite kings from the hill country have joined forces against us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_7"> <sup>7</sup>So Joshua marched up from Gilgal with his entire army, including all the best fighting men. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_8"><sup>8</sup>The Lord said to Joshua, “Do not be afraid of them; I have given them into your hand. Not one of them will be able to withstand you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_9"> <sup>9</sup>After an all-night march from Gilgal, Joshua took them by surprise. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_10"><sup>10</sup>The Lord threw them into confusion before Israel, so Joshua and the Israelites defeated them completely at Gibeon. Israel pursued them along the road going up to Beth Horon and cut them down all the way to Azekah and Makkedah. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_11"><sup>11</sup>As they fled before Israel on the road down from Beth Horon to Azekah, the Lord hurled large hailstones down on them, and more of them died from the hail than were killed by the swords of the Israelites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>On the day the Lord gave the Amorites over to Israel, Joshua said to the Lord in the presence of Israel: <br/>  “Sun, stand still over Gibeon, <br/>   and you, moon, over the Valley of Aijalon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_13">  <sup>13</sup>So the sun stood still, <br/>   and the moon stopped, <br/>   till the nation avenged itself on<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or nation triumphed over">⚓</a> its enemies, <br/>as it is written in the Book of Jashar. <br/> The sun stopped in the middle of the sky and delayed going down about a full day. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_14"><sup>14</sup>There has never been a day like it before or since, a day when the Lord listened to a human being. Surely the Lord was fighting for Israel! <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Joshua returned with all Israel to the camp at Gilgal. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Five Amorite Kings Killed </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>Now the five kings had fled and hidden in the cave at Makkedah. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_17"><sup>17</sup>When Joshua was told that the five kings had been found hiding in the cave at Makkedah, </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_18"><sup>18</sup>he said, “Roll large rocks up to the mouth of the cave, and post some men there to guard it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_19"><sup>19</sup>But don’t stop; pursue your enemies! Attack them from the rear and don’t let them reach their cities, for the Lord your God has given them into your hand.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_20"> <sup>20</sup>So Joshua and the Israelites defeated them completely, but a few survivors managed to reach their fortified cities. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_21"><sup>21</sup>The whole army then returned safely to Joshua in the camp at Makkedah, and no one uttered a word against the Israelites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_22"> <sup>22</sup>Joshua said, “Open the mouth of the cave and bring those five kings out to me.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_23"><sup>23</sup>So they brought the five kings out of the cave—the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish and Eglon. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_24"><sup>24</sup>When they had brought these kings to Joshua, he summoned all the men of Israel and said to the army commanders who had come with him, “Come here and put your feet on the necks of these kings.” So they came forward and placed their feet on their necks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_25"> <sup>25</sup>Joshua said to them, “Do not be afraid; do not be discouraged. Be strong and courageous. This is what the Lord will do to all the enemies you are going to fight.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_26"><sup>26</sup>Then Joshua put the kings to death and exposed their bodies on five poles, and they were left hanging on the poles until evening. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_27"> <sup>27</sup>At sunset Joshua gave the order and they took them down from the poles and threw them into the cave where they had been hiding. At the mouth of the cave they placed large rocks, which are there to this day. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Southern Cities Conquered </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_10_28"> <sup>28</sup>That day Joshua took Makkedah. He put the city and its king to the sword and totally destroyed everyone in it. He left no survivors. And he did to the king of Makkedah as he had done to the king of Jericho. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_29"> <sup>29</sup>Then Joshua and all Israel with him moved on from Makkedah to Libnah and attacked it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_30"><sup>30</sup>The Lord also gave that city and its king into Israel’s hand. The city and everyone in it Joshua put to the sword. He left no survivors there. And he did to its king as he had done to the king of Jericho. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_31"> <sup>31</sup>Then Joshua and all Israel with him moved on from Libnah to Lachish; he took up positions against it and attacked it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_32"><sup>32</sup>The Lord gave Lachish into Israel’s hands, and Joshua took it on the second day. The city and everyone in it he put to the sword, just as he had done to Libnah. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_33"><sup>33</sup>Meanwhile, Horam king of Gezer had come up to help Lachish, but Joshua defeated him and his army—until no survivors were left. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_34"> <sup>34</sup>Then Joshua and all Israel with him moved on from Lachish to Eglon; they took up positions against it and attacked it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_35"><sup>35</sup>They captured it that same day and put it to the sword and totally destroyed everyone in it, just as they had done to Lachish. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_36"> <sup>36</sup>Then Joshua and all Israel with him went up from Eglon to Hebron and attacked it. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_37"><sup>37</sup>They took the city and put it to the sword, together with its king, its villages and everyone in it. They left no survivors. Just as at Eglon, they totally destroyed it and everyone in it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_38"> <sup>38</sup>Then Joshua and all Israel with him turned around and attacked Debir. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_39"><sup>39</sup>They took the city, its king and its villages, and put them to the sword. Everyone in it they totally destroyed. They left no survivors. They did to Debir and its king as they had done to Libnah and its king and to Hebron. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_40"> <sup>40</sup>So Joshua subdued the whole region, including the hill country, the Negev, the western foothills and the mountain slopes, together with all their kings. He left no survivors. He totally destroyed all who breathed, just as the Lord, the God of Israel, had commanded. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_41"><sup>41</sup>Joshua subdued them from Kadesh Barnea to Gaza and from the whole region of Goshen to Gibeon. </span>
<span class="verse gios_10_42"><sup>42</sup>All these kings and their lands Joshua conquered in one campaign, because the Lord, the God of Israel, fought for Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_10_43"> <sup>43</sup>Then Joshua returned with all Israel to the camp at Gilgal. <br/></span>
