---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>List of Defeated Kings </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>These are the kings of the land whom the Israelites had defeated and whose territory they took over east of the Jordan, from the Arnon Gorge to Mount Hermon, including all the eastern side of the Arabah: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_12_2">  <sup>2</sup>Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon. <br/>    He ruled from Aroer on the rim of the Arnon Gorge—from the middle of the gorge—to the Jabbok River, which is the border of the Ammonites. This included half of Gilead. </span>
<span class="verse gios_12_3"><sup>3</sup>He also ruled over the eastern Arabah from the Sea of Galilee<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Kinnereth">⚓</a> to the Sea of the Arabah (that is, the Dead Sea), to Beth Jeshimoth, and then southward below the slopes of Pisgah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_12_4">  <sup>4</sup>And the territory of Og king of Bashan, one of the last of the Rephaites, who reigned in Ashtaroth and Edrei. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_12_5">    <sup>5</sup>He ruled over Mount Hermon, Salekah, all of Bashan to the border of the people of Geshur and Maakah, and half of Gilead to the border of Sihon king of Heshbon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_12_6"> <sup>6</sup>Moses, the servant of the Lord, and the Israelites conquered them. And Moses the servant of the Lord gave their land to the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh to be their possession. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>Here is a list of the kings of the land that Joshua and the Israelites conquered on the west side of the Jordan, from Baal Gad in the Valley of Lebanon to Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir. Joshua gave their lands as an inheritance to the tribes of Israel according to their tribal divisions. </span>
<span class="verse gios_12_8"><sup>8</sup>The lands included the hill country, the western foothills, the Arabah, the mountain slopes, the wilderness and the Negev. These were the lands of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. These were the kings: <br/></span>
