---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Land Still to Be Taken </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Joshua had grown old, the Lord said to him, “You are now very old, and there are still very large areas of land to be taken over. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_2"><sup>2</sup>“This is the land that remains: all the regions of the Philistines and Geshurites, </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_3"><sup>3</sup>from the Shihor River on the east of Egypt to the territory of Ekron on the north, all of it counted as Canaanite though held by the five Philistine rulers in Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gath and Ekron; the territory of the Avvites </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_4"><sup>4</sup>on the south; all the land of the Canaanites, from Arah of the Sidonians as far as Aphek and the border of the Amorites; </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_5"><sup>5</sup>the area of Byblos; and all Lebanon to the east, from Baal Gad below Mount Hermon to Lebo Hamath. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_6"> <sup>6</sup>“As for all the inhabitants of the mountain regions from Lebanon to Misrephoth Maim, that is, all the Sidonians, I myself will drive them out before the Israelites. Be sure to allocate this land to Israel for an inheritance, as I have instructed you, </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_7"><sup>7</sup>and divide it as an inheritance among the nine tribes and half of the tribe of Manasseh.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Division of the Land East of the Jordan </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_13_8"> <sup>8</sup>The other half of Manasseh,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew With it (that is, with the other half of Manasseh)">⚓</a> the Reubenites and the Gadites had received the inheritance that Moses had given them east of the Jordan, as he, the servant of the Lord, had assigned it to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_9"><sup>9</sup>It extended from Aroer on the rim of the Arnon Gorge, and from the town in the middle of the gorge, and included the whole plateau of Medeba as far as Dibon, </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_10"><sup>10</sup>and all the towns of Sihon king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon, out to the border of the Ammonites. </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_11"><sup>11</sup>It also included Gilead, the territory of the people of Geshur and Maakah, all of Mount Hermon and all Bashan as far as Salekah— </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_12"><sup>12</sup>that is, the whole kingdom of Og in Bashan, who had reigned in Ashtaroth and Edrei. (He was the last of the Rephaites.) Moses had defeated them and taken over their land. </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_13"><sup>13</sup>But the Israelites did not drive out the people of Geshur and Maakah, so they continue to live among the Israelites to this day. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_14"> <sup>14</sup>But to the tribe of Levi he gave no inheritance, since the food offerings presented to the Lord, the God of Israel, are their inheritance, as he promised them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_15"> <sup>15</sup>This is what Moses had given to the tribe of Reuben, according to its clans: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_16"><sup>16</sup>The territory from Aroer on the rim of the Arnon Gorge, and from the town in the middle of the gorge, and the whole plateau past Medeba </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_17"><sup>17</sup>to Heshbon and all its towns on the plateau, including Dibon, Bamoth Baal, Beth Baal Meon, </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_18"><sup>18</sup>Jahaz, Kedemoth, Mephaath, </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_19"><sup>19</sup>Kiriathaim, Sibmah, Zereth Shahar on the hill in the valley, </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_20"><sup>20</sup>Beth Peor, the slopes of Pisgah, and Beth Jeshimoth— </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_21"><sup>21</sup>all the towns on the plateau and the entire realm of Sihon king of the Amorites, who ruled at Heshbon. Moses had defeated him and the Midianite chiefs, Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur and Reba—princes allied with Sihon—who lived in that country. </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_22"><sup>22</sup>In addition to those slain in battle, the Israelites had put to the sword Balaam son of Beor, who practiced divination. </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_23"><sup>23</sup>The boundary of the Reubenites was the bank of the Jordan. These towns and their villages were the inheritance of the Reubenites, according to their clans. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_24"> <sup>24</sup>This is what Moses had given to the tribe of Gad, according to its clans: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_25"><sup>25</sup>The territory of Jazer, all the towns of Gilead and half the Ammonite country as far as Aroer, near Rabbah; </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_26"><sup>26</sup>and from Heshbon to Ramath Mizpah and Betonim, and from Mahanaim to the territory of Debir; </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_27"><sup>27</sup>and in the valley, Beth Haram, Beth Nimrah, Sukkoth and Zaphon with the rest of the realm of Sihon king of Heshbon (the east side of the Jordan, the territory up to the end of the Sea of Galilee<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Kinnereth">⚓</a> ). </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_28"><sup>28</sup>These towns and their villages were the inheritance of the Gadites, according to their clans. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_29"> <sup>29</sup>This is what Moses had given to the half-tribe of Manasseh, that is, to half the family of the descendants of Manasseh, according to its clans: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_30"><sup>30</sup>The territory extending from Mahanaim and including all of Bashan, the entire realm of Og king of Bashan—all the settlements of Jair in Bashan, sixty towns, </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_31"><sup>31</sup>half of Gilead, and Ashtaroth and Edrei (the royal cities of Og in Bashan). This was for the descendants of Makir son of Manasseh—for half of the sons of Makir, according to their clans. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_13_32"> <sup>32</sup>This is the inheritance Moses had given when he was in the plains of Moab across the Jordan east of Jericho. </span>
<span class="verse gios_13_33"><sup>33</sup>But to the tribe of Levi, Moses had given no inheritance; the Lord, the God of Israel, is their inheritance, as he promised them. <br/></span>
