---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>Division of the Land West of the Jordan </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now these are the areas the Israelites received as an inheritance in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun and the heads of the tribal clans of Israel allotted to them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_2"><sup>2</sup>Their inheritances were assigned by lot to the nine-and-a-half tribes, as the Lord had commanded through Moses. </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_3"><sup>3</sup>Moses had granted the two-and-a-half tribes their inheritance east of the Jordan but had not granted the Levites an inheritance among the rest, </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_4"><sup>4</sup>for Joseph’s descendants had become two tribes—Manasseh and Ephraim. The Levites received no share of the land but only towns to live in, with pasturelands for their flocks and herds. </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_5"><sup>5</sup>So the Israelites divided the land, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Allotment for Caleb </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_14_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now the people of Judah approached Joshua at Gilgal, and Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, “You know what the Lord said to Moses the man of God at Kadesh Barnea about you and me. </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_7"><sup>7</sup>I was forty years old when Moses the servant of the Lord sent me from Kadesh Barnea to explore the land. And I brought him back a report according to my convictions, </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_8"><sup>8</sup>but my fellow Israelites who went up with me made the hearts of the people melt in fear. I, however, followed the Lord my God wholeheartedly. </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_9"><sup>9</sup>So on that day Moses swore to me, ‘The land on which your feet have walked will be your inheritance and that of your children forever, because you have followed the Lord my God wholeheartedly.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 1:36">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_14_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Now then, just as the Lord promised, he has kept me alive for forty-five years since the time he said this to Moses, while Israel moved about in the wilderness. So here I am today, eighty-five years old! </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_11"><sup>11</sup>I am still as strong today as the day Moses sent me out; I’m just as vigorous to go out to battle now as I was then. </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_12"><sup>12</sup>Now give me this hill country that the Lord promised me that day. You yourself heard then that the Anakites were there and their cities were large and fortified, but, the Lord helping me, I will drive them out just as he said.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then Joshua blessed Caleb son of Jephunneh and gave him Hebron as his inheritance. </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_14"><sup>14</sup>So Hebron has belonged to Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite ever since, because he followed the Lord, the God of Israel, wholeheartedly. </span>
<span class="verse gios_14_15"><sup>15</sup>(Hebron used to be called Kiriath Arba after Arba, who was the greatest man among the Anakites.) <br/> Then the land had rest from war. <br/></span>
