---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Allotment for Ephraim and Manasseh </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>The allotment for Joseph began at the Jordan, east of the springs of Jericho, and went up from there through the desert into the hill country of Bethel. </span>
<span class="verse gios_16_2"><sup>2</sup>It went on from Bethel (that is, Luz),<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew Bethel to Luz">⚓</a> crossed over to the territory of the Arkites in Ataroth, </span>
<span class="verse gios_16_3"><sup>3</sup>descended westward to the territory of the Japhletites as far as the region of Lower Beth Horon and on to Gezer, ending at the Mediterranean Sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_16_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Manasseh and Ephraim, the descendants of Joseph, received their inheritance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_16_5"> <sup>5</sup>This was the territory of Ephraim, according to its clans: <br/> The boundary of their inheritance went from Ataroth Addar in the east to Upper Beth Horon </span>
<span class="verse gios_16_6"><sup>6</sup>and continued to the Mediterranean Sea. From Mikmethath on the north it curved eastward to Taanath Shiloh, passing by it to Janoah on the east. </span>
<span class="verse gios_16_7"><sup>7</sup>Then it went down from Janoah to Ataroth and Naarah, touched Jericho and came out at the Jordan. </span>
<span class="verse gios_16_8"><sup>8</sup>From Tappuah the border went west to the Kanah Ravine and ended at the Mediterranean Sea. This was the inheritance of the tribe of the Ephraimites, according to its clans. </span>
<span class="verse gios_16_9"><sup>9</sup>It also included all the towns and their villages that were set aside for the Ephraimites within the inheritance of the Manassites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_16_10"><sup>10</sup>They did not dislodge the Canaanites living in Gezer; to this day the Canaanites live among the people of Ephraim but are required to do forced labor. <br/></span>
