---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1></div>
<span class="verse gios_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>This was the allotment for the tribe of Manasseh as Joseph’s firstborn, that is, for Makir, Manasseh’s firstborn. Makir was the ancestor of the Gileadites, who had received Gilead and Bashan because the Makirites were great soldiers. </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_2"><sup>2</sup>So this allotment was for the rest of the people of Manasseh—the clans of Abiezer, Helek, Asriel, Shechem, Hepher and Shemida. These are the other male descendants of Manasseh son of Joseph by their clans. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_17_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now Zelophehad son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Makir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons but only daughters, whose names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milkah and Tirzah. </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_4"><sup>4</sup>They went to Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the leaders and said, “The Lord commanded Moses to give us an inheritance among our relatives.” So Joshua gave them an inheritance along with the brothers of their father, according to the Lord’s command. </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_5"><sup>5</sup>Manasseh’s share consisted of ten tracts of land besides Gilead and Bashan east of the Jordan, </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_6"><sup>6</sup>because the daughters of the tribe of Manasseh received an inheritance among the sons. The land of Gilead belonged to the rest of the descendants of Manasseh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_17_7"> <sup>7</sup>The territory of Manasseh extended from Asher to Mikmethath east of Shechem. The boundary ran southward from there to include the people living at En Tappuah. </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_8"><sup>8</sup>(Manasseh had the land of Tappuah, but Tappuah itself, on the boundary of Manasseh, belonged to the Ephraimites.) </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_9"><sup>9</sup>Then the boundary continued south to the Kanah Ravine. There were towns belonging to Ephraim lying among the towns of Manasseh, but the boundary of Manasseh was the northern side of the ravine and ended at the Mediterranean Sea. </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_10"><sup>10</sup>On the south the land belonged to Ephraim, on the north to Manasseh. The territory of Manasseh reached the Mediterranean Sea and bordered Asher on the north and Issachar on the east. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_17_11"> <sup>11</sup>Within Issachar and Asher, Manasseh also had Beth Shan, Ibleam and the people of Dor, Endor, Taanach and Megiddo, together with their surrounding settlements (the third in the list is Naphoth<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Naphoth Dor">⚓</a> ). <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_17_12"><sup>12</sup>Yet the Manassites were not able to occupy these towns, for the Canaanites were determined to live in that region. </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_13"><sup>13</sup>However, when the Israelites grew stronger, they subjected the Canaanites to forced labor but did not drive them out completely. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_17_14"> <sup>14</sup>The people of Joseph said to Joshua, “Why have you given us only one allotment and one portion for an inheritance? We are a numerous people, and the Lord has blessed us abundantly.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_17_15"> <sup>15</sup>“If you are so numerous,” Joshua answered, “and if the hill country of Ephraim is too small for you, go up into the forest and clear land for yourselves there in the land of the Perizzites and Rephaites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_17_16"> <sup>16</sup>The people of Joseph replied, “The hill country is not enough for us, and all the Canaanites who live in the plain have chariots fitted with iron, both those in Beth Shan and its settlements and those in the Valley of Jezreel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_17_17"> <sup>17</sup>But Joshua said to the tribes of Joseph—to Ephraim and Manasseh—“You are numerous and very powerful. You will have not only one allotment </span>
<span class="verse gios_17_18"><sup>18</sup>but the forested hill country as well. Clear it, and its farthest limits will be yours; though the Canaanites have chariots fitted with iron and though they are strong, you can drive them out.” <br/></span>
