---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>Cities of Refuge </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Lord said to Joshua: </span>
<span class="verse gios_20_2"><sup>2</sup>“Tell the Israelites to designate the cities of refuge, as I instructed you through Moses, </span>
<span class="verse gios_20_3"><sup>3</sup>so that anyone who kills a person accidentally and unintentionally may flee there and find protection from the avenger of blood. </span>
<span class="verse gios_20_4"><sup>4</sup>When they flee to one of these cities, they are to stand in the entrance of the city gate and state their case before the elders of that city. Then the elders are to admit the fugitive into their city and provide a place to live among them. </span>
<span class="verse gios_20_5"><sup>5</sup>If the avenger of blood comes in pursuit, the elders must not surrender the fugitive, because the fugitive killed their neighbor unintentionally and without malice aforethought. </span>
<span class="verse gios_20_6"><sup>6</sup>They are to stay in that city until they have stood trial before the assembly and until the death of the high priest who is serving at that time. Then they may go back to their own home in the town from which they fled.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_20_7"> <sup>7</sup>So they set apart Kedesh in Galilee in the hill country of Naphtali, Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron) in the hill country of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse gios_20_8"><sup>8</sup>East of the Jordan (on the other side from Jericho) they designated Bezer in the wilderness on the plateau in the tribe of Reuben, Ramoth in Gilead in the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan in the tribe of Manasseh. </span>
<span class="verse gios_20_9"><sup>9</sup>Any of the Israelites or any foreigner residing among them who killed someone accidentally could flee to these designated cities and not be killed by the avenger of blood prior to standing trial before the assembly. <br/></span>
