---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>Towns for the Levites </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now the family heads of the Levites approached Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the heads of the other tribal families of Israel </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_2"><sup>2</sup>at Shiloh in Canaan and said to them, “The Lord commanded through Moses that you give us towns to live in, with pasturelands for our livestock.” </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_3"><sup>3</sup>So, as the Lord had commanded, the Israelites gave the Levites the following towns and pasturelands out of their own inheritance: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_4"> <sup>4</sup>The first lot came out for the Kohathites, according to their clans. The Levites who were descendants of Aaron the priest were allotted thirteen towns from the tribes of Judah, Simeon and Benjamin. </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_5"><sup>5</sup>The rest of Kohath’s descendants were allotted ten towns from the clans of the tribes of Ephraim, Dan and half of Manasseh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_6"> <sup>6</sup>The descendants of Gershon were allotted thirteen towns from the clans of the tribes of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali and the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_7"> <sup>7</sup>The descendants of Merari, according to their clans, received twelve towns from the tribes of Reuben, Gad and Zebulun. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_8"> <sup>8</sup>So the Israelites allotted to the Levites these towns and their pasturelands, as the Lord had commanded through Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_9"> <sup>9</sup>From the tribes of Judah and Simeon they allotted the following towns by name </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_10"><sup>10</sup>(these towns were assigned to the descendants of Aaron who were from the Kohathite clans of the Levites, because the first lot fell to them): <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_11"> <sup>11</sup>They gave them Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron), with its surrounding pastureland, in the hill country of Judah. (Arba was the forefather of Anak.) </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_12"><sup>12</sup>But the fields and villages around the city they had given to Caleb son of Jephunneh as his possession. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_13"> <sup>13</sup>So to the descendants of Aaron the priest they gave Hebron (a city of refuge for one accused of murder), Libnah, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_14"><sup>14</sup>Jattir, Eshtemoa, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_15"><sup>15</sup>Holon, Debir, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_16"><sup>16</sup>Ain, Juttah and Beth Shemesh, together with their pasturelands—nine towns from these two tribes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_17"> <sup>17</sup>And from the tribe of Benjamin they gave them Gibeon, Geba, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_18"><sup>18</sup>Anathoth and Almon, together with their pasturelands—four towns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_19"> <sup>19</sup>The total number of towns for the priests, the descendants of Aaron, came to thirteen, together with their pasturelands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_20"> <sup>20</sup>The rest of the Kohathite clans of the Levites were allotted towns from the tribe of Ephraim: <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_21"> <sup>21</sup>In the hill country of Ephraim they were given Shechem (a city of refuge for one accused of murder) and Gezer, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_22"><sup>22</sup>Kibzaim and Beth Horon, together with their pasturelands—four towns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_23"> <sup>23</sup>Also from the tribe of Dan they received Eltekeh, Gibbethon, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_24"><sup>24</sup>Aijalon and Gath Rimmon, together with their pasturelands—four towns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_25"> <sup>25</sup>From half the tribe of Manasseh they received Taanach and Gath Rimmon, together with their pasturelands—two towns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_26"> <sup>26</sup>All these ten towns and their pasturelands were given to the rest of the Kohathite clans. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_27"> <sup>27</sup>The Levite clans of the Gershonites were given: <br/>  from the half-tribe of Manasseh, <br/>  Golan in Bashan (a city of refuge for one accused of murder) and Be Eshterah, together with their pasturelands—two towns; <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_28">  <sup>28</sup>from the tribe of Issachar, <br/>  Kishion, Daberath, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_29"><sup>29</sup>Jarmuth and En Gannim, together with their pasturelands—four towns; <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_30">  <sup>30</sup>from the tribe of Asher, <br/>  Mishal, Abdon, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_31"><sup>31</sup>Helkath and Rehob, together with their pasturelands—four towns; <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_32">  <sup>32</sup>from the tribe of Naphtali, <br/>  Kedesh in Galilee (a city of refuge for one accused of murder), Hammoth Dor and Kartan, together with their pasturelands—three towns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_33"> <sup>33</sup>The total number of towns of the Gershonite clans came to thirteen, together with their pasturelands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_34"> <sup>34</sup>The Merarite clans (the rest of the Levites) were given: <br/>  from the tribe of Zebulun, <br/>  Jokneam, Kartah, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_35"><sup>35</sup>Dimnah and Nahalal, together with their pasturelands—four towns; <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_36">  <sup>36</sup>from the tribe of Reuben, <br/>  Bezer, Jahaz, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_37"><sup>37</sup>Kedemoth and Mephaath, together with their pasturelands—four towns; <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_38">  <sup>38</sup>from the tribe of Gad, <br/>  Ramoth in Gilead (a city of refuge for one accused of murder), Mahanaim, </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_39"><sup>39</sup>Heshbon and Jazer, together with their pasturelands—four towns in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_40"> <sup>40</sup>The total number of towns allotted to the Merarite clans, who were the rest of the Levites, came to twelve. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_41"> <sup>41</sup>The towns of the Levites in the territory held by the Israelites were forty-eight in all, together with their pasturelands. </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_42"><sup>42</sup>Each of these towns had pasturelands surrounding it; this was true for all these towns. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_21_43"> <sup>43</sup>So the Lord gave Israel all the land he had sworn to give their ancestors, and they took possession of it and settled there. </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_44"><sup>44</sup>The Lord gave them rest on every side, just as he had sworn to their ancestors. Not one of their enemies withstood them; the Lord gave all their enemies into their hands. </span>
<span class="verse gios_21_45"><sup>45</sup>Not one of all the Lord’s good promises to Israel failed; every one was fulfilled. <br/></span>
