---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Joshua 
bookNumber: 6
audio: \Audio\NIV\gios\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>The Covenant Renewed at Shechem </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Joshua assembled all the tribes of Israel at Shechem. He summoned the elders, leaders, judges and officials of Israel, and they presented themselves before God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_2"> <sup>2</sup>Joshua said to all the people, “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: ‘Long ago your ancestors, including Terah the father of Abraham and Nahor, lived beyond the Euphrates River and worshiped other gods. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_3"><sup>3</sup>But I took your father Abraham from the land beyond the Euphrates and led him throughout Canaan and gave him many descendants. I gave him Isaac, </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_4"><sup>4</sup>and to Isaac I gave Jacob and Esau. I assigned the hill country of Seir to Esau, but Jacob and his family went down to Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_5"> <sup>5</sup>“ ‘Then I sent Moses and Aaron, and I afflicted the Egyptians by what I did there, and I brought you out. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_6"><sup>6</sup>When I brought your people out of Egypt, you came to the sea, and the Egyptians pursued them with chariots and horsemen<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or charioteers">⚓</a> as far as the Red Sea.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Sea of Reeds">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_7"><sup>7</sup>But they cried to the Lord for help, and he put darkness between you and the Egyptians; he brought the sea over them and covered them. You saw with your own eyes what I did to the Egyptians. Then you lived in the wilderness for a long time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘I brought you to the land of the Amorites who lived east of the Jordan. They fought against you, but I gave them into your hands. I destroyed them from before you, and you took possession of their land. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_9"><sup>9</sup>When Balak son of Zippor, the king of Moab, prepared to fight against Israel, he sent for Balaam son of Beor to put a curse on you. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_10"><sup>10</sup>But I would not listen to Balaam, so he blessed you again and again, and I delivered you out of his hand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_11"> <sup>11</sup>“ ‘Then you crossed the Jordan and came to Jericho. The citizens of Jericho fought against you, as did also the Amorites, Perizzites, Canaanites, Hittites, Girgashites, Hivites and Jebusites, but I gave them into your hands. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_12"><sup>12</sup>I sent the hornet ahead of you, which drove them out before you—also the two Amorite kings. You did not do it with your own sword and bow. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_13"><sup>13</sup>So I gave you a land on which you did not toil and cities you did not build; and you live in them and eat from vineyards and olive groves that you did not plant.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Now fear the Lord and serve him with all faithfulness. Throw away the gods your ancestors worshiped beyond the Euphrates River and in Egypt, and serve the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_15"><sup>15</sup>But if serving the Lord seems undesirable to you, then choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your ancestors served beyond the Euphrates, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living. But as for me and my household, we will serve the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then the people answered, “Far be it from us to forsake the Lord to serve other gods! </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_17"><sup>17</sup>It was the Lord our God himself who brought us and our parents up out of Egypt, from that land of slavery, and performed those great signs before our eyes. He protected us on our entire journey and among all the nations through which we traveled. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_18"><sup>18</sup>And the Lord drove out before us all the nations, including the Amorites, who lived in the land. We too will serve the Lord, because he is our God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_19"> <sup>19</sup>Joshua said to the people, “You are not able to serve the Lord. He is a holy God; he is a jealous God. He will not forgive your rebellion and your sins. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_20"><sup>20</sup>If you forsake the Lord and serve foreign gods, he will turn and bring disaster on you and make an end of you, after he has been good to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_21"> <sup>21</sup>But the people said to Joshua, “No! We will serve the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then Joshua said, “You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen to serve the Lord.” <br/> “Yes, we are witnesses,” they replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_23"> <sup>23</sup>“Now then,” said Joshua, “throw away the foreign gods that are among you and yield your hearts to the Lord, the God of Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_24"> <sup>24</sup>And the people said to Joshua, “We will serve the Lord our God and obey him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_25"> <sup>25</sup>On that day Joshua made a covenant for the people, and there at Shechem he reaffirmed for them decrees and laws. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_26"><sup>26</sup>And Joshua recorded these things in the Book of the Law of God. Then he took a large stone and set it up there under the oak near the holy place of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_27"> <sup>27</sup>“See!” he said to all the people. “This stone will be a witness against us. It has heard all the words the Lord has said to us. It will be a witness against you if you are untrue to your God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then Joshua dismissed the people, each to their own inheritance. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Buried in the Promised Land </h3></div>
<span class="verse gios_24_29"> <sup>29</sup>After these things, Joshua son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died at the age of a hundred and ten. </span>
<span class="verse gios_24_30"><sup>30</sup>And they buried him in the land of his inheritance, at Timnath Serah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Also known as Timnath Heres (see Judges 2:9)">⚓</a> in the hill country of Ephraim, north of Mount Gaash. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_31"> <sup>31</sup>Israel served the Lord throughout the lifetime of Joshua and of the elders who outlived him and who had experienced everything the Lord had done for Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_32"> <sup>32</sup>And Joseph’s bones, which the Israelites had brought up from Egypt, were buried at Shechem in the tract of land that Jacob bought for a hundred pieces of silver<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew hundred kesitahs ; a kesitah was a unit of money of unknown weight and value.">⚓</a> from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem. This became the inheritance of Joseph’s descendants. <br/></span>
<span class="verse gios_24_33"> <sup>33</sup>And Eleazar son of Aaron died and was buried at Gibeah, which had been allotted to his son Phinehas in the hill country of Ephraim. <br/></span>
