---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>The Magi Visit the Messiah </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod, Magi<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally wise men">⚓</a> from the east came to Jerusalem </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_2"><sup>2</sup>and asked, “Where is the one who has been born king of the Jews? We saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_2_3"> <sup>3</sup>When King Herod heard this he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_4"><sup>4</sup>When he had called together all the people’s chief priests and teachers of the law, he asked them where the Messiah was to be born. </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_5"><sup>5</sup>“In Bethlehem in Judea,” they replied, “for this is what the prophet has written: <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_2_6">  <sup>6</sup>“ ‘But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, <br/>   are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; <br/>  for out of you will come a ruler <br/>   who will shepherd my people Israel.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Micah 5:2,4">⚓</a> ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time the star had appeared. </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_8"><sup>8</sup>He sent them to Bethlehem and said, “Go and search carefully for the child. As soon as you find him, report to me, so that I too may go and worship him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_2_9"> <sup>9</sup>After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star they had seen when it rose went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was. </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_10"><sup>10</sup>When they saw the star, they were overjoyed. </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_11"><sup>11</sup>On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh. </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_12"><sup>12</sup>And having been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their country by another route. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Escape to Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>When they had gone, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream. “Get up,” he said, “take the child and his mother and escape to Egypt. Stay there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to kill him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>So he got up, took the child and his mother during the night and left for Egypt, </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_15"><sup>15</sup>where he stayed until the death of Herod. And so was fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet: “Out of Egypt I called my son.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hosea 11:1">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_2_16"> <sup>16</sup>When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was furious, and he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its vicinity who were two years old and under, in accordance with the time he had learned from the Magi. </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_17"><sup>17</sup>Then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled: <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_2_18">  <sup>18</sup>“A voice is heard in Ramah, <br/>   weeping and great mourning, <br/>  Rachel weeping for her children <br/>   and refusing to be comforted, <br/>   because they are no more.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 31:15">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Return to Nazareth </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_20"><sup>20</sup>and said, “Get up, take the child and his mother and go to the land of Israel, for those who were trying to take the child’s life are dead.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_2_21"> <sup>21</sup>So he got up, took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_22"><sup>22</sup>But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Having been warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee, </span>
<span class="verse mat_2_23"><sup>23</sup>and he went and lived in a town called Nazareth. So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets, that he would be called a Nazarene. <br/></span>
