---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>John the Baptist Prepares the Way </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>In those days John the Baptist came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_2"><sup>2</sup>and saying, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven has come near.” </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_3"><sup>3</sup>This is he who was spoken of through the prophet Isaiah: <br/>  “A voice of one calling in the wilderness, <br/>  ‘Prepare the way for the Lord, <br/>   make straight paths for him.’ ”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 40:3">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_3_4"> <sup>4</sup>John’s clothes were made of camel’s hair, and he had a leather belt around his waist. His food was locusts and wild honey. </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_5"><sup>5</sup>People went out to him from Jerusalem and all Judea and the whole region of the Jordan. </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_6"><sup>6</sup>Confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to where he was baptizing, he said to them: “You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_8"><sup>8</sup>Produce fruit in keeping with repentance. </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_9"><sup>9</sup>And do not think you can say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father.’ I tell you that out of these stones God can raise up children for Abraham. </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_10"><sup>10</sup>The ax is already at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>“I baptize you with<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a> water for repentance. But after me comes one who is more powerful than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a> the Holy Spirit and fire. </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_12"><sup>12</sup>His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor, gathering his wheat into the barn and burning up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Baptism of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_3_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to be baptized by John. </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_14"><sup>14</sup>But John tried to deter him, saying, “I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>Jesus replied, <font color="red">“Let it be so now; it is proper for us to do this to fulfill all righteousness.”</font> Then John consented. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_3_16"> <sup>16</sup>As soon as Jesus was baptized, he went up out of the water. At that moment heaven was opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting on him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_3_17"><sup>17</sup>And a voice from heaven said, “This is my Son, whom I love; with him I am well pleased.” <br/></span>
