---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>Jesus Forgives and Heals a Paralyzed Man </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>Jesus stepped into a boat, crossed over and came to his own town. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_2"><sup>2</sup>Some men brought to him a paralyzed man, lying on a mat. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the man, <font color="red">“Take heart, son; your sins are forgiven.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_3"> <sup>3</sup>At this, some of the teachers of the law said to themselves, “This fellow is blaspheming!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_4"> <sup>4</sup>Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said, <font color="red">“Why do you entertain evil thoughts in your hearts?</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">Which is easier: to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.”</font> So he said to the paralyzed man, <font color="red">“Get up, take your mat and go home.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_7"><sup>7</sup>Then the man got up and went home. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_8"><sup>8</sup>When the crowd saw this, they were filled with awe; and they praised God, who had given such authority to man. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Calling of Matthew </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_9_9"> <sup>9</sup>As Jesus went on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector’s booth. <font color="red">“Follow me,”</font> he told him, and Matthew got up and followed him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_10"> <sup>10</sup>While Jesus was having dinner at Matthew’s house, many tax collectors and sinners came and ate with him and his disciples. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_11"><sup>11</sup>When the Pharisees saw this, they asked his disciples, “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_12"> <sup>12</sup>On hearing this, Jesus said, <font color="red">“It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">But go and learn what this means: ‘I desire mercy, not sacrifice.’</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hosea 6:6">⚓</a><font color="red">For I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Questioned About Fasting </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_9_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then John’s disciples came and asked him, “How is it that we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples do not fast?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_15"> <sup>15</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“How can the guests of the bridegroom mourn while he is with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them; then they will fast.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_16"> <sup>16</sup><font color="red">“No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch will pull away from the garment, making the tear worse.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_17"><sup>17</sup><font color="red">Neither do people pour new wine into old wineskins. If they do, the skins will burst; the wine will run out and the wineskins will be ruined. No, they pour new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Raises a Dead Girl and Heals a Sick Woman </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_9_18"> <sup>18</sup>While he was saying this, a synagogue leader came and knelt before him and said, “My daughter has just died. But come and put your hand on her, and she will live.” </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_19"><sup>19</sup>Jesus got up and went with him, and so did his disciples. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_20"> <sup>20</sup>Just then a woman who had been subject to bleeding for twelve years came up behind him and touched the edge of his cloak. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_21"><sup>21</sup>She said to herself, “If I only touch his cloak, I will be healed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_22"> <sup>22</sup>Jesus turned and saw her. <font color="red">“Take heart, daughter,”</font> he said, <font color="red">“your faith has healed you.”</font> And the woman was healed at that moment. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_23"> <sup>23</sup>When Jesus entered the synagogue leader’s house and saw the noisy crowd and people playing pipes, </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_24"><sup>24</sup>he said, <font color="red">“Go away. The girl is not dead but asleep.”</font> But they laughed at him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_25"><sup>25</sup>After the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took the girl by the hand, and she got up. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_26"><sup>26</sup>News of this spread through all that region. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Heals the Blind and the Mute </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_9_27"> <sup>27</sup>As Jesus went on from there, two blind men followed him, calling out, “Have mercy on us, Son of David!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_28"> <sup>28</sup>When he had gone indoors, the blind men came to him, and he asked them, <font color="red">“Do you believe that I am able to do this?”</font><br/> “Yes, Lord,” they replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_29"> <sup>29</sup>Then he touched their eyes and said, <font color="red">“According to your faith let it be done to you”;</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_30"><sup>30</sup>and their sight was restored. Jesus warned them sternly, <font color="red">“See that no one knows about this.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_31"><sup>31</sup>But they went out and spread the news about him all over that region. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_32"> <sup>32</sup>While they were going out, a man who was demon-possessed and could not talk was brought to Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_33"><sup>33</sup>And when the demon was driven out, the man who had been mute spoke. The crowd was amazed and said, “Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_34"> <sup>34</sup>But the Pharisees said, “It is by the prince of demons that he drives out demons.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Workers Are Few </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_9_35"> <sup>35</sup>Jesus went through all the towns and villages, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the good news of the kingdom and healing every disease and sickness. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_36"><sup>36</sup>When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. </span>
<span class="verse mat_9_37"><sup>37</sup>Then he said to his disciples, <font color="red">“The harvest is plentiful but the workers are few.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_9_38"><sup>38</sup><font color="red">Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field.”</font><br/></span>
