---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Jesus Is Lord of the Sabbath </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry and began to pick some heads of grain and eat them. </span>
<span class="verse mat_12_2"><sup>2</sup>When the Pharisees saw this, they said to him, “Look! Your disciples are doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_3"> <sup>3</sup>He answered, <font color="red">“Haven’t you read what David did when he and his companions were hungry?</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_4"><sup>4</sup><font color="red">He entered the house of God, and he and his companions ate the consecrated bread—which was not lawful for them to do, but only for the priests.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">Or haven’t you read in the Law that the priests on Sabbath duty in the temple desecrate the Sabbath and yet are innocent?</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">I tell you that something greater than the temple is here.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_7"><sup>7</sup><font color="red">If you had known what these words mean, ‘I desire mercy, not sacrifice,’</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hosea 6:6">⚓</a><font color="red">you would not have condemned the innocent.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_8"><sup>8</sup><font color="red">For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_9"> <sup>9</sup>Going on from that place, he went into their synagogue, </span>
<span class="verse mat_12_10"><sup>10</sup>and a man with a shriveled hand was there. Looking for a reason to bring charges against Jesus, they asked him, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_11"> <sup>11</sup>He said to them, <font color="red">“If any of you has a sheep and it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will you not take hold of it and lift it out?</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_12"><sup>12</sup><font color="red">How much more valuable is a person than a sheep! Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then he said to the man, <font color="red">“Stretch out your hand.”</font> So he stretched it out and it was completely restored, just as sound as the other. </span>
<span class="verse mat_12_14"><sup>14</sup>But the Pharisees went out and plotted how they might kill Jesus. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Chosen Servant </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_12_15"> <sup>15</sup>Aware of this, Jesus withdrew from that place. A large crowd followed him, and he healed all who were ill. </span>
<span class="verse mat_12_16"><sup>16</sup>He warned them not to tell others about him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_12_17"><sup>17</sup>This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah: <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_18">  <sup>18</sup>“Here is my servant whom I have chosen, <br/>   the one I love, in whom I delight; <br/>  I will put my Spirit on him, <br/>   and he will proclaim justice to the nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_19">  <sup>19</sup>He will not quarrel or cry out; <br/>   no one will hear his voice in the streets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_20">  <sup>20</sup>A bruised reed he will not break, <br/>   and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out, <br/>  till he has brought justice through to victory. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_21">   <sup>21</sup>In his name the nations will put their hope.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 42:1-4">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus and Beelzebul </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_12_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then they brought him a demon-possessed man who was blind and mute, and Jesus healed him, so that he could both talk and see. </span>
<span class="verse mat_12_23"><sup>23</sup>All the people were astonished and said, “Could this be the Son of David?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_24"> <sup>24</sup>But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, “It is only by Beelzebul, the prince of demons, that this fellow drives out demons.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_25"> <sup>25</sup>Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, <font color="red">“Every kingdom divided against itself will be ruined, and every city or household divided against itself will not stand.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">If Satan drives out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then can his kingdom stand?</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_27"><sup>27</sup><font color="red">And if I drive out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your people drive them out? So then, they will be your judges.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_28"><sup>28</sup><font color="red">But if it is by the Spirit of God that I drive out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_29"> <sup>29</sup><font color="red">“Or again, how can anyone enter a strong man’s house and carry off his possessions unless he first ties up the strong man? Then he can plunder his house.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_30"> <sup>30</sup><font color="red">“Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_31"><sup>31</sup><font color="red">And so I tell you, every kind of sin and slander can be forgiven, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_32"><sup>32</sup><font color="red">Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but anyone who speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_33"> <sup>33</sup><font color="red">“Make a tree good and its fruit will be good, or make a tree bad and its fruit will be bad, for a tree is recognized by its fruit.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_34"><sup>34</sup><font color="red">You brood of vipers, how can you who are evil say anything good? For the mouth speaks what the heart is full of.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_35"><sup>35</sup><font color="red">A good man brings good things out of the good stored up in him, and an evil man brings evil things out of the evil stored up in him.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_36"><sup>36</sup><font color="red">But I tell you that everyone will have to give account on the day of judgment for every empty word they have spoken.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_37"><sup>37</sup><font color="red">For by your words you will be acquitted, and by your words you will be condemned.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Sign of Jonah </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_12_38"> <sup>38</sup>Then some of the Pharisees and teachers of the law said to him, “Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_39"> <sup>39</sup>He answered, <font color="red">“A wicked and adulterous generation asks for a sign! But none will be given it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_40"><sup>40</sup><font color="red">For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of a huge fish, so the Son of Man will be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_41"><sup>41</sup><font color="red">The men of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and now something greater than Jonah is here.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_42"><sup>42</sup><font color="red">The Queen of the South will rise at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for she came from the ends of the earth to listen to Solomon’s wisdom, and now something greater than Solomon is here.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_43"> <sup>43</sup><font color="red">“When an impure spirit comes out of a person, it goes through arid places seeking rest and does not find it.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_44"><sup>44</sup><font color="red">Then it says, ‘I will return to the house I left.’ When it arrives, it finds the house unoccupied, swept clean and put in order.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_45"><sup>45</sup><font color="red">Then it goes and takes with it seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and live there. And the final condition of that person is worse than the first. That is how it will be with this wicked generation.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus’ Mother and Brothers </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_12_46"> <sup>46</sup>While Jesus was still talking to the crowd, his mother and brothers stood outside, wanting to speak to him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_12_47"><sup>47</sup>Someone told him, “Your mother and brothers are standing outside, wanting to speak to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_48"> <sup>48</sup>He replied to him, <font color="red">“Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_49"><sup>49</sup>Pointing to his disciples, he said, <font color="red">“Here are my mother and my brothers.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_12_50"><sup>50</sup><font color="red">For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother.”</font><br/></span>
