---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>John the Baptist Beheaded </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the reports about Jesus, </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_2"><sup>2</sup>and he said to his attendants, “This is John the Baptist; he has risen from the dead! That is why miraculous powers are at work in him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now Herod had arrested John and bound him and put him in prison because of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_4"><sup>4</sup>for John had been saying to him: “It is not lawful for you to have her.” </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_5"><sup>5</sup>Herod wanted to kill John, but he was afraid of the people, because they considered John a prophet. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_6"> <sup>6</sup>On Herod’s birthday the daughter of Herodias danced for the guests and pleased Herod so much </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_7"><sup>7</sup>that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_8"><sup>8</sup>Prompted by her mother, she said, “Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_9"><sup>9</sup>The king was distressed, but because of his oaths and his dinner guests, he ordered that her request be granted </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_10"><sup>10</sup>and had John beheaded in the prison. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_11"><sup>11</sup>His head was brought in on a platter and given to the girl, who carried it to her mother. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_12"><sup>12</sup>John’s disciples came and took his body and buried it. Then they went and told Jesus. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Feeds the Five Thousand </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>When Jesus heard what had happened, he withdrew by boat privately to a solitary place. Hearing of this, the crowds followed him on foot from the towns. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_14"><sup>14</sup>When Jesus landed and saw a large crowd, he had compassion on them and healed their sick. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_15"> <sup>15</sup>As evening approached, the disciples came to him and said, “This is a remote place, and it’s already getting late. Send the crowds away, so they can go to the villages and buy themselves some food.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_16"> <sup>16</sup>Jesus replied, <font color="red">“They do not need to go away. You give them something to eat.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_17"> <sup>17</sup>“We have here only five loaves of bread and two fish,” they answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_18"> <sup>18</sup><font color="red">“Bring them here to me,”</font> he said. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_19"><sup>19</sup>And he directed the people to sit down on the grass. Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, he gave thanks and broke the loaves. Then he gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the people. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_20"><sup>20</sup>They all ate and were satisfied, and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces that were left over. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_21"><sup>21</sup>The number of those who ate was about five thousand men, besides women and children. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Walks on the Water </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_14_22"> <sup>22</sup>Immediately Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go on ahead of him to the other side, while he dismissed the crowd. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_23"><sup>23</sup>After he had dismissed them, he went up on a mountainside by himself to pray. Later that night, he was there alone, </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_24"><sup>24</sup>and the boat was already a considerable distance from land, buffeted by the waves because the wind was against it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_25"> <sup>25</sup>Shortly before dawn Jesus went out to them, walking on the lake. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_26"><sup>26</sup>When the disciples saw him walking on the lake, they were terrified. “It’s a ghost,” they said, and cried out in fear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_27"> <sup>27</sup>But Jesus immediately said to them: <font color="red">“Take courage! It is I. Don’t be afraid.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_28"> <sup>28</sup>“Lord, if it’s you,” Peter replied, “tell me to come to you on the water.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_29"> <sup>29</sup><font color="red">“Come,”</font> he said. <br/> Then Peter got down out of the boat, walked on the water and came toward Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_30"><sup>30</sup>But when he saw the wind, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, cried out, “Lord, save me!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_31"> <sup>31</sup>Immediately Jesus reached out his hand and caught him. <font color="red">“You of little faith,”</font> he said, <font color="red">“why did you doubt?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_32"> <sup>32</sup>And when they climbed into the boat, the wind died down. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_33"><sup>33</sup>Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, “Truly you are the Son of God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_14_34"> <sup>34</sup>When they had crossed over, they landed at Gennesaret. </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_35"><sup>35</sup>And when the men of that place recognized Jesus, they sent word to all the surrounding country. People brought all their sick to him </span>
<span class="verse mat_14_36"><sup>36</sup>and begged him to let the sick just touch the edge of his cloak, and all who touched it were healed. <br/></span>
