---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>The Transfiguration </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>After six days Jesus took with him Peter, James and John the brother of James, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. </span>
<span class="verse mat_17_2"><sup>2</sup>There he was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his clothes became as white as the light. </span>
<span class="verse mat_17_3"><sup>3</sup>Just then there appeared before them Moses and Elijah, talking with Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_4"> <sup>4</sup>Peter said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, I will put up three shelters—one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_5"> <sup>5</sup>While he was still speaking, a bright cloud covered them, and a voice from the cloud said, “This is my Son, whom I love; with him I am well pleased. Listen to him!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_6"> <sup>6</sup>When the disciples heard this, they fell facedown to the ground, terrified. </span>
<span class="verse mat_17_7"><sup>7</sup>But Jesus came and touched them. <font color="red">“Get up,”</font> he said. <font color="red">“Don’t be afraid.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_8"><sup>8</sup>When they looked up, they saw no one except Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_9"> <sup>9</sup>As they were coming down the mountain, Jesus instructed them, <font color="red">“Don’t tell anyone what you have seen, until the Son of Man has been raised from the dead.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_10"> <sup>10</sup>The disciples asked him, “Why then do the teachers of the law say that Elijah must come first?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_11"> <sup>11</sup>Jesus replied, <font color="red">“To be sure, Elijah comes and will restore all things.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_12"><sup>12</sup><font color="red">But I tell you, Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but have done to him everything they wished. In the same way the Son of Man is going to suffer at their hands.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_13"><sup>13</sup>Then the disciples understood that he was talking to them about John the Baptist. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Heals a Demon-Possessed Boy </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_17_14"> <sup>14</sup>When they came to the crowd, a man approached Jesus and knelt before him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_17_15"><sup>15</sup>“Lord, have mercy on my son,” he said. “He has seizures and is suffering greatly. He often falls into the fire or into the water. </span>
<span class="verse mat_17_16"><sup>16</sup>I brought him to your disciples, but they could not heal him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_17"> <sup>17</sup><font color="red">“You unbelieving and perverse generation,”</font> Jesus replied, <font color="red">“how long shall I stay with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring the boy here to me.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_18"><sup>18</sup>Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of the boy, and he was healed at that moment. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then the disciples came to Jesus in private and asked, “Why couldn’t we drive it out?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_20"> <sup>20</sup>He replied, <font color="red">“Because you have so little faith. Truly I tell you, if you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_21"><sup>[21]</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts include here words similar to Mark 9:29.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Predicts His Death a Second Time </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_17_22"> <sup>22</sup>When they came together in Galilee, he said to them, <font color="red">“The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">They will kill him, and on the third day he will be raised to life.”</font> And the disciples were filled with grief. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Temple Tax </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_17_24"> <sup>24</sup>After Jesus and his disciples arrived in Capernaum, the collectors of the two-drachma temple tax came to Peter and asked, “Doesn’t your teacher pay the temple tax?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_25"> <sup>25</sup>“Yes, he does,” he replied. <br/> When Peter came into the house, Jesus was the first to speak. <font color="red">“What do you think, Simon?”</font> he asked. <font color="red">“From whom do the kings of the earth collect duty and taxes—from their own children or from others?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_17_26"> <sup>26</sup>“From others,” Peter answered. <br/> <font color="red">“Then the children are exempt,”</font> Jesus said to him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_17_27"><sup>27</sup><font color="red">“But so that we may not cause offense, go to the lake and throw out your line. Take the first fish you catch; open its mouth and you will find a four-drachma coin. Take it and give it to them for my tax and yours.”</font><br/></span>
