---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\26.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>26</h1><h3>The Plot Against Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples, </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_2"><sup>2</sup><font color="red">“As you know, the Passover is two days away—and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then the chief priests and the elders of the people assembled in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas, </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_4"><sup>4</sup>and they schemed to arrest Jesus secretly and kill him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_5"><sup>5</sup>“But not during the festival,” they said, “or there may be a riot among the people.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Anointed at Bethany </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_6"> <sup>6</sup>While Jesus was in Bethany in the home of Simon the Leper, </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_7"><sup>7</sup>a woman came to him with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume, which she poured on his head as he was reclining at the table. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_8"> <sup>8</sup>When the disciples saw this, they were indignant. “Why this waste?” they asked. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_9"><sup>9</sup>“This perfume could have been sold at a high price and the money given to the poor.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_10"> <sup>10</sup>Aware of this, Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“Why are you bothering this woman? She has done a beautiful thing to me.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_11"><sup>11</sup><font color="red">The poor you will always have with you,</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Deut. 15:11.">⚓</a><font color="red">but you will not always have me.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_12"><sup>12</sup><font color="red">When she poured this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">Truly I tell you, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Judas Agrees to Betray Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then one of the Twelve—the one called Judas Iscariot—went to the chief priests </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_15"><sup>15</sup>and asked, “What are you willing to give me if I deliver him over to you?” So they counted out for him thirty pieces of silver. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_16"><sup>16</sup>From then on Judas watched for an opportunity to hand him over. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Last Supper </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_17"> <sup>17</sup>On the first day of the Festival of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus and asked, “Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_18"> <sup>18</sup>He replied, <font color="red">“Go into the city to a certain man and tell him, ‘The Teacher says: My appointed time is near. I am going to celebrate the Passover with my disciples at your house.’ ”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_19"><sup>19</sup>So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them and prepared the Passover. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_20"> <sup>20</sup>When evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the Twelve. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_21"><sup>21</sup>And while they were eating, he said, <font color="red">“Truly I tell you, one of you will betray me.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_22"> <sup>22</sup>They were very sad and began to say to him one after the other, “Surely you don’t mean me, Lord?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_23"> <sup>23</sup>Jesus replied, <font color="red">“The one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will betray me.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. But woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man! It would be better for him if he had not been born.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then Judas, the one who would betray him, said, “Surely you don’t mean me, Rabbi?” <br/> Jesus answered, <font color="red">“You have said so.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_26"> <sup>26</sup>While they were eating, Jesus took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to his disciples, saying, <font color="red">“Take and eat; this is my body.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_27"> <sup>27</sup>Then he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, <font color="red">“Drink from it, all of you.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_28"><sup>28</sup><font color="red">This is my blood of the</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts the new">⚓</a><font color="red">covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_29"><sup>29</sup><font color="red">I tell you, I will not drink from this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father’s kingdom.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_30"> <sup>30</sup>When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Predicts Peter’s Denial </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_31"> <sup>31</sup>Then Jesus told them, <font color="red">“This very night you will all fall away on account of me, for it is written: </font><br/>  <font color="red">“ ‘I will strike the shepherd, </font><br/>   <font color="red">and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 26:31 Zech. 13:7 ">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_32"><sup>32</sup><font color="red">But after I have risen, I will go ahead of you into Galilee.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_33"> <sup>33</sup>Peter replied, “Even if all fall away on account of you, I never will.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_34"> <sup>34</sup><font color="red">“Truly I tell you,”</font> Jesus answered, <font color="red">“this very night, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_35"> <sup>35</sup>But Peter declared, “Even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you.” And all the other disciples said the same. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Gethsemane </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_36"> <sup>36</sup>Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to them, <font color="red">“Sit here while I go over there and pray.”</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_37"><sup>37</sup>He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him, and he began to be sorrowful and troubled. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_38"><sup>38</sup>Then he said to them, <font color="red">“My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. Stay here and keep watch with me.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_39"> <sup>39</sup>Going a little farther, he fell with his face to the ground and prayed, <font color="red">“My Father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. Yet not as I will, but as you will.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_40"> <sup>40</sup>Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. <font color="red">“Couldn’t you men keep watch with me for one hour?”</font> he asked Peter. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_41"><sup>41</sup><font color="red">“Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_42"> <sup>42</sup>He went away a second time and prayed, <font color="red">“My Father, if it is not possible for this cup to be taken away unless I drink it, may your will be done.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_43"> <sup>43</sup>When he came back, he again found them sleeping, because their eyes were heavy. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_44"><sup>44</sup>So he left them and went away once more and prayed the third time, saying the same thing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_45"> <sup>45</sup>Then he returned to the disciples and said to them, <font color="red">“Are you still sleeping and resting? Look, the hour has come, and the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_46"><sup>46</sup><font color="red">Rise! Let us go! Here comes my betrayer!”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Arrested </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_47"> <sup>47</sup>While he was still speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve, arrived. With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the elders of the people. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_48"><sup>48</sup>Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them: “The one I kiss is the man; arrest him.” </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_49"><sup>49</sup>Going at once to Jesus, Judas said, “Greetings, Rabbi!” and kissed him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_50"> <sup>50</sup>Jesus replied, <font color="red">“Do what you came for, friend.”</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or “Why have you come, friend?”">⚓</a><br/> Then the men stepped forward, seized Jesus and arrested him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_51"><sup>51</sup>With that, one of Jesus’ companions reached for his sword, drew it out and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_52"> <sup>52</sup><font color="red">“Put your sword back in its place,”</font> Jesus said to him, <font color="red">“for all who draw the sword will die by the sword.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_53"><sup>53</sup><font color="red">Do you think I cannot call on my Father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels?</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_54"><sup>54</sup><font color="red">But how then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that say it must happen in this way?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_55"> <sup>55</sup>In that hour Jesus said to the crowd, <font color="red">“Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? Every day I sat in the temple courts teaching, and you did not arrest me.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_56"><sup>56</sup><font color="red">But this has all taken place that the writings of the prophets might be fulfilled.”</font> Then all the disciples deserted him and fled. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Before the Sanhedrin </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_57"> <sup>57</sup>Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas the high priest, where the teachers of the law and the elders had assembled. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_58"><sup>58</sup>But Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_59"> <sup>59</sup>The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for false evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_60"><sup>60</sup>But they did not find any, though many false witnesses came forward. <br/> Finally two came forward </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_61"><sup>61</sup>and declared, “This fellow said, ‘I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_62"> <sup>62</sup>Then the high priest stood up and said to Jesus, “Are you not going to answer? What is this testimony that these men are bringing against you?” </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_63"><sup>63</sup>But Jesus remained silent. <br/> The high priest said to him, “I charge you under oath by the living God: Tell us if you are the Messiah, the Son of God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_64"> <sup>64</sup><font color="red">“You have said so,”</font> Jesus replied. <font color="red">“But I say to all of you: From now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven.”</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Psalm 110:1; Daniel 7:13.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_65"> <sup>65</sup>Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, “He has spoken blasphemy! Why do we need any more witnesses? Look, now you have heard the blasphemy. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_66"><sup>66</sup>What do you think?” <br/> “He is worthy of death,” they answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_67"> <sup>67</sup>Then they spit in his face and struck him with their fists. Others slapped him </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_68"><sup>68</sup>and said, “Prophesy to us, Messiah. Who hit you?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Peter Disowns Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_26_69"> <sup>69</sup>Now Peter was sitting out in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him. “You also were with Jesus of Galilee,” she said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_70"> <sup>70</sup>But he denied it before them all. “I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_71"> <sup>71</sup>Then he went out to the gateway, where another servant girl saw him and said to the people there, “This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_72"> <sup>72</sup>He denied it again, with an oath: “I don’t know the man!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_73"> <sup>73</sup>After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, “Surely you are one of them; your accent gives you away.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_26_74"> <sup>74</sup>Then he began to call down curses, and he swore to them, “I don’t know the man!” <br/> Immediately a rooster crowed. </span>
<span class="verse mat_26_75"><sup>75</sup>Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken: <font color="red">“Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times.”</font> And he went outside and wept bitterly. <br/></span>
