---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\27.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>27</h1><h3>Judas Hangs Himself </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_27_1"> <sup>1</sup>Early in the morning, all the chief priests and the elders of the people made their plans how to have Jesus executed. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_2"><sup>2</sup>So they bound him, led him away and handed him over to Pilate the governor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_3"> <sup>3</sup>When Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he was seized with remorse and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_4"><sup>4</sup>“I have sinned,” he said, “for I have betrayed innocent blood.” <br/> “What is that to us?” they replied. “That’s your responsibility.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_5"> <sup>5</sup>So Judas threw the money into the temple and left. Then he went away and hanged himself. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_6"> <sup>6</sup>The chief priests picked up the coins and said, “It is against the law to put this into the treasury, since it is blood money.” </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_7"><sup>7</sup>So they decided to use the money to buy the potter’s field as a burial place for foreigners. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_8"><sup>8</sup>That is why it has been called the Field of Blood to this day. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_9"><sup>9</sup>Then what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled: “They took the thirty pieces of silver, the price set on him by the people of Israel, </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_10"><sup>10</sup>and they used them to buy the potter’s field, as the Lord commanded me.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Zech. 11:12,13; Jer. 19:1-13; 32:6-9.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Before Pilate </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_27_11"> <sup>11</sup>Meanwhile Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, “Are you the king of the Jews?” <br/> <font color="red">“You have said so,”</font> Jesus replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_12"> <sup>12</sup>When he was accused by the chief priests and the elders, he gave no answer. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_13"><sup>13</sup>Then Pilate asked him, “Don’t you hear the testimony they are bringing against you?” </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_14"><sup>14</sup>But Jesus made no reply, not even to a single charge—to the great amazement of the governor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_15"> <sup>15</sup>Now it was the governor’s custom at the festival to release a prisoner chosen by the crowd. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_16"><sup>16</sup>At that time they had a well-known prisoner whose name was Jesus<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many manuscripts do not have Jesus ; also in verse 17.">⚓</a> Barabbas. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_17"><sup>17</sup>So when the crowd had gathered, Pilate asked them, “Which one do you want me to release to you: Jesus Barabbas, or Jesus who is called the Messiah?” </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_18"><sup>18</sup>For he knew it was out of self-interest that they had handed Jesus over to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_19"> <sup>19</sup>While Pilate was sitting on the judge’s seat, his wife sent him this message: “Don’t have anything to do with that innocent man, for I have suffered a great deal today in a dream because of him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_20"> <sup>20</sup>But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and to have Jesus executed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_21"> <sup>21</sup>“Which of the two do you want me to release to you?” asked the governor. <br/> “Barabbas,” they answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_22"> <sup>22</sup>“What shall I do, then, with Jesus who is called the Messiah?” Pilate asked. <br/> They all answered, “Crucify him!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_23"> <sup>23</sup>“Why? What crime has he committed?” asked Pilate. <br/> But they shouted all the louder, “Crucify him!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_24"> <sup>24</sup>When Pilate saw that he was getting nowhere, but that instead an uproar was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd. “I am innocent of this man’s blood,” he said. “It is your responsibility!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_25"> <sup>25</sup>All the people answered, “His blood is on us and on our children!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then he released Barabbas to them. But he had Jesus flogged, and handed him over to be crucified. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Soldiers Mock Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_27_27"> <sup>27</sup>Then the governor’s soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole company of soldiers around him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_28"><sup>28</sup>They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_29"><sup>29</sup>and then twisted together a crown of thorns and set it on his head. They put a staff in his right hand. Then they knelt in front of him and mocked him. “Hail, king of the Jews!” they said. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_30"><sup>30</sup>They spit on him, and took the staff and struck him on the head again and again. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_31"><sup>31</sup>After they had mocked him, they took off the robe and put his own clothes on him. Then they led him away to crucify him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Crucifixion of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_27_32"> <sup>32</sup>As they were going out, they met a man from Cyrene, named Simon, and they forced him to carry the cross. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_33"><sup>33</sup>They came to a place called Golgotha (which means “the place of the skull”). </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_34"><sup>34</sup>There they offered Jesus wine to drink, mixed with gall; but after tasting it, he refused to drink it. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_35"><sup>35</sup>When they had crucified him, they divided up his clothes by casting lots. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_36"><sup>36</sup>And sitting down, they kept watch over him there. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_37"><sup>37</sup>Above his head they placed the written charge against him: this is jesus, the king of the jews. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_38"> <sup>38</sup>Two rebels were crucified with him, one on his right and one on his left. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_39"><sup>39</sup>Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_40"><sup>40</sup>and saying, “You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself! Come down from the cross, if you are the Son of God!” </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_41"><sup>41</sup>In the same way the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders mocked him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_42"><sup>42</sup>“He saved others,” they said, “but he can’t save himself! He’s the king of Israel! Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_43"><sup>43</sup>He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he wants him, for he said, ‘I am the Son of God.’ ” </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_44"><sup>44</sup>In the same way the rebels who were crucified with him also heaped insults on him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Death of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_27_45"> <sup>45</sup>From noon until three in the afternoon darkness came over all the land. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_46"><sup>46</sup>About three in the afternoon Jesus cried out in a loud voice, <em>“Eli, Eli,</em><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts Eloi, Eloi">⚓</a><em>lema</em><em>sabachthani?”</em> (which means <font color="red">“My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”</font>).<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 22:1">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_47"> <sup>47</sup>When some of those standing there heard this, they said, “He’s calling Elijah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_48"> <sup>48</sup>Immediately one of them ran and got a sponge. He filled it with wine vinegar, put it on a staff, and offered it to Jesus to drink. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_49"><sup>49</sup>The rest said, “Now leave him alone. Let’s see if Elijah comes to save him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_50"> <sup>50</sup>And when Jesus had cried out again in a loud voice, he gave up his spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_51"> <sup>51</sup>At that moment the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook, the rocks split </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_52"><sup>52</sup>and the tombs broke open. The bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_53"><sup>53</sup>They came out of the tombs after Jesus’ resurrection and<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or tombs, and after Jesus’ resurrection they">⚓</a> went into the holy city and appeared to many people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_54"> <sup>54</sup>When the centurion and those with him who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and all that had happened, they were terrified, and exclaimed, “Surely he was the Son of God!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_55"> <sup>55</sup>Many women were there, watching from a distance. They had followed Jesus from Galilee to care for his needs. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_56"><sup>56</sup>Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joseph,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Joses , a variant of Joseph">⚓</a> and the mother of Zebedee’s sons. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Burial of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_27_57"> <sup>57</sup>As evening approached, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who had himself become a disciple of Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_58"><sup>58</sup>Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus’ body, and Pilate ordered that it be given to him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_59"><sup>59</sup>Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_60"><sup>60</sup>and placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock. He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb and went away. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_61"><sup>61</sup>Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there opposite the tomb. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Guard at the Tomb </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_27_62"> <sup>62</sup>The next day, the one after Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate. </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_63"><sup>63</sup>“Sir,” they said, “we remember that while he was still alive that deceiver said, ‘After three days I will rise again.’ </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_64"><sup>64</sup>So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead. This last deception will be worse than the first.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_27_65"> <sup>65</sup>“Take a guard,” Pilate answered. “Go, make the tomb as secure as you know how.” </span>
<span class="verse mat_27_66"><sup>66</sup>So they went and made the tomb secure by putting a seal on the stone and posting the guard. <br/></span>
