---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Matthew 
bookNumber: 40
audio: \Audio\NIV\mat\28.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>28</h1><h3>Jesus Has Risen </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_28_1"> <sup>1</sup>After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_28_2"> <sup>2</sup>There was a violent earthquake, for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven and, going to the tomb, rolled back the stone and sat on it. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_3"><sup>3</sup>His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_4"><sup>4</sup>The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men. <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_28_5"> <sup>5</sup>The angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_6"><sup>6</sup>He is not here; he has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where he lay. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_7"><sup>7</sup>Then go quickly and tell his disciples: ‘He has risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him.’ Now I have told you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse mat_28_8"> <sup>8</sup>So the women hurried away from the tomb, afraid yet filled with joy, and ran to tell his disciples. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_9"><sup>9</sup>Suddenly Jesus met them. <font color="red">“Greetings,”</font> he said. They came to him, clasped his feet and worshiped him. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_10"><sup>10</sup>Then Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee; there they will see me.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Guards’ Report </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_28_11"> <sup>11</sup>While the women were on their way, some of the guards went into the city and reported to the chief priests everything that had happened. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_12"><sup>12</sup>When the chief priests had met with the elders and devised a plan, they gave the soldiers a large sum of money, </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_13"><sup>13</sup>telling them, “You are to say, ‘His disciples came during the night and stole him away while we were asleep.’ </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_14"><sup>14</sup>If this report gets to the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.” </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_15"><sup>15</sup>So the soldiers took the money and did as they were instructed. And this story has been widely circulated among the Jews to this very day. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Great Commission </h3></div>
<span class="verse mat_28_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_17"><sup>17</sup>When they saw him, they worshiped him; but some doubted. </span>
<span class="verse mat_28_18"><sup>18</sup>Then Jesus came to them and said, <font color="red">“All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_28_19"><sup>19</sup><font color="red">Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</font></span>
<span class="verse mat_28_20"><sup>20</sup><font color="red">and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age.”</font><br/></span>
