---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: I Peter 
bookNumber: 60
audio: \Audio\NIV\1phi\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, <br/> To God’s elect, exiles scattered throughout the provinces of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_2"><sup>2</sup>who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to be obedient to Jesus Christ and sprinkled with his blood: <br/> Grace and peace be yours in abundance. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Praise to God for a Living Hope </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! In his great mercy he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_4"><sup>4</sup>and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil or fade. This inheritance is kept in heaven for you, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_5"><sup>5</sup>who through faith are shielded by God’s power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_6"><sup>6</sup>In all this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_7"><sup>7</sup>These have come so that the proven genuineness of your faith—of greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by fire—may result in praise, glory and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_8"><sup>8</sup>Though you have not seen him, you love him; and even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_9"><sup>9</sup>for you are receiving the end result of your faith, the salvation of your souls. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>Concerning this salvation, the prophets, who spoke of the grace that was to come to you, searched intently and with the greatest care, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_11"><sup>11</sup>trying to find out the time and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing when he predicted the sufferings of the Messiah and the glories that would follow. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_12"><sup>12</sup>It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves but you, when they spoke of the things that have now been told you by those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Even angels long to look into these things. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Be Holy </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>Therefore, with minds that are alert and fully sober, set your hope on the grace to be brought to you when Jesus Christ is revealed at his coming. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_14"><sup>14</sup>As obedient children, do not conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_15"><sup>15</sup>But just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do; </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_16"><sup>16</sup>for it is written: “Be holy, because I am holy.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 11:44,45; 19:2">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>Since you call on a Father who judges each person’s work impartially, live out your time as foreigners here in reverent fear. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_18"><sup>18</sup>For you know that it was not with perishable things such as silver or gold that you were redeemed from the empty way of life handed down to you from your ancestors, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_19"><sup>19</sup>but with the precious blood of Christ, a lamb without blemish or defect. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_20"><sup>20</sup>He was chosen before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these last times for your sake. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_21"><sup>21</sup>Through him you believe in God, who raised him from the dead and glorified him, and so your faith and hope are in God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth so that you have sincere love for each other, love one another deeply, from the heart.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts from a pure heart">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_23"><sup>23</sup>For you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_24"><sup>24</sup>For, <br/>  “All people are like grass, <br/>   and all their glory is like the flowers of the field; <br/>  the grass withers and the flowers fall, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_1_25">   <sup>25</sup>but the word of the Lord endures forever.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 40:6-8 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a><br/>And this is the word that was preached to you. <br/></span>
