---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: I Peter 
bookNumber: 60
audio: \Audio\NIV\1phi\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore, rid yourselves of all malice and all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander of every kind. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_2"><sup>2</sup>Like newborn babies, crave pure spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow up in your salvation, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_3"><sup>3</sup>now that you have tasted that the Lord is good. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Living Stone and a Chosen People </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>As you come to him, the living Stone—rejected by humans but chosen by God and precious to him— </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_5"><sup>5</sup>you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or into a temple of the Spirit">⚓</a> to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_6"><sup>6</sup>For in Scripture it says: <br/>  “See, I lay a stone in Zion, <br/>   a chosen and precious cornerstone, <br/>  and the one who trusts in him <br/>   will never be put to shame.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 28:16">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_7"><sup>7</sup>Now to you who believe, this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe, <br/>  “The stone the builders rejected <br/>   has become the cornerstone,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 118:22">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_8"><sup>8</sup>and, <br/>  “A stone that causes people to stumble <br/>   and a rock that makes them fall.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 8:14">⚓</a><br/>They stumble because they disobey the message—which is also what they were destined for. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_9"> <sup>9</sup>But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God’s special possession, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_10"><sup>10</sup>Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Living Godly Lives in a Pagan Society </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>Dear friends, I urge you, as foreigners and exiles, to abstain from sinful desires, which wage war against your soul. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_12"><sup>12</sup>Live such good lives among the pagans that, though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>Submit yourselves for the Lord’s sake to every human authority: whether to the emperor, as the supreme authority, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_14"><sup>14</sup>or to governors, who are sent by him to punish those who do wrong and to commend those who do right. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_15"><sup>15</sup>For it is God’s will that by doing good you should silence the ignorant talk of foolish people. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_16"><sup>16</sup>Live as free people, but do not use your freedom as a cover-up for evil; live as God’s slaves. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_17"><sup>17</sup>Show proper respect to everyone, love the family of believers, fear God, honor the emperor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_18"> <sup>18</sup>Slaves, in reverent fear of God submit yourselves to your masters, not only to those who are good and considerate, but also to those who are harsh. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_19"><sup>19</sup>For it is commendable if someone bears up under the pain of unjust suffering because they are conscious of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_20"><sup>20</sup>But how is it to your credit if you receive a beating for doing wrong and endure it? But if you suffer for doing good and you endure it, this is commendable before God. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_21"><sup>21</sup>To this you were called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, that you should follow in his steps. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_22">  <sup>22</sup>“He committed no sin, <br/>   and no deceit was found in his mouth.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 53:9">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_23"><sup>23</sup>When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate; when he suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_24"><sup>24</sup>“He himself bore our sins” in his body on the cross, so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness; “by his wounds you have been healed.” </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_2_25"><sup>25</sup>For “you were like sheep going astray,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 53:4,5,6 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a> but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls. <br/></span>
