---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: I Peter 
bookNumber: 60
audio: \Audio\NIV\1phi\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Wives, in the same way submit yourselves to your own husbands so that, if any of them do not believe the word, they may be won over without words by the behavior of their wives, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_2"><sup>2</sup>when they see the purity and reverence of your lives. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_3"><sup>3</sup>Your beauty should not come from outward adornment, such as elaborate hairstyles and the wearing of gold jewelry or fine clothes. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Rather, it should be that of your inner self, the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is of great worth in God’s sight. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_5"><sup>5</sup>For this is the way the holy women of the past who put their hope in God used to adorn themselves. They submitted themselves to their own husbands, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_6"><sup>6</sup>like Sarah, who obeyed Abraham and called him her lord. You are her daughters if you do what is right and do not give way to fear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>Husbands, in the same way be considerate as you live with your wives, and treat them with respect as the weaker partner and as heirs with you of the gracious gift of life, so that nothing will hinder your prayers. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Suffering for Doing Good </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_8"> <sup>8</sup>Finally, all of you, be like-minded, be sympathetic, love one another, be compassionate and humble. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_9"><sup>9</sup>Do not repay evil with evil or insult with insult. On the contrary, repay evil with blessing, because to this you were called so that you may inherit a blessing. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_10"><sup>10</sup>For, <br/>  “Whoever would love life <br/>   and see good days <br/>  must keep their tongue from evil <br/>   and their lips from deceitful speech. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_11">  <sup>11</sup>They must turn from evil and do good; <br/>   they must seek peace and pursue it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_12">  <sup>12</sup>For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous <br/>   and his ears are attentive to their prayer, <br/>  but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 34:12-16">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_13"> <sup>13</sup>Who is going to harm you if you are eager to do good? </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_14"><sup>14</sup>But even if you should suffer for what is right, you are blessed. “Do not fear their threats<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or fear what they fear">⚓</a> ; do not be frightened.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 8:12">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_15"><sup>15</sup>But in your hearts revere Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_16"><sup>16</sup>keeping a clear conscience, so that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ may be ashamed of their slander. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_17"><sup>17</sup>For it is better, if it is God’s will, to suffer for doing good than for doing evil. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_18"><sup>18</sup>For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. He was put to death in the body but made alive in the Spirit. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_19"><sup>19</sup>After being made alive,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or alive in the spirit, 19in which also">⚓</a> he went and made proclamation to the imprisoned spirits— </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_20"><sup>20</sup>to those who were disobedient long ago when God waited patiently in the days of Noah while the ark was being built. In it only a few people, eight in all, were saved through water, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_21"><sup>21</sup>and this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you also—not the removal of dirt from the body but the pledge of a clear conscience toward God.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or but an appeal to God for a clear conscience">⚓</a> It saves you by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_3_22"><sup>22</sup>who has gone into heaven and is at God’s right hand—with angels, authorities and powers in submission to him. <br/></span>
