---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: I Peter 
bookNumber: 60
audio: \Audio\NIV\1phi\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>To the Elders and the Flock </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>To the elders among you, I appeal as a fellow elder and a witness of Christ’s sufferings who also will share in the glory to be revealed: </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_2"><sup>2</sup>Be shepherds of God’s flock that is under your care, watching over them—not because you must, but because you are willing, as God wants you to be; not pursuing dishonest gain, but eager to serve; </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_3"><sup>3</sup>not lording it over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_4"><sup>4</sup>And when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that will never fade away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_5"> <sup>5</sup>In the same way, you who are younger, submit yourselves to your elders. All of you, clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, because, <br/>  “God opposes the proud <br/>   but shows favor to the humble.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Prov. 3:34">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_6"><sup>6</sup>Humble yourselves, therefore, under God’s mighty hand, that he may lift you up in due time. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_7"><sup>7</sup>Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_8"> <sup>8</sup>Be alert and of sober mind. Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_9"><sup>9</sup>Resist him, standing firm in the faith, because you know that the family of believers throughout the world is undergoing the same kind of sufferings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_10"> <sup>10</sup>And the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, will himself restore you and make you strong, firm and steadfast. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_11"><sup>11</sup>To him be the power for ever and ever. Amen. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Greetings </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_12"> <sup>12</sup>With the help of Silas,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Silvanus , a variant of Silas">⚓</a> whom I regard as a faithful brother, I have written to you briefly, encouraging you and testifying that this is the true grace of God. Stand fast in it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>She who is in Babylon, chosen together with you, sends you her greetings, and so does my son Mark. </span>
<span class="verse 1phi_5_14"><sup>14</sup>Greet one another with a kiss of love. <br/> Peace to all of you who are in Christ. <br/></span>
