---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Prologue </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The revelation from Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants what must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_2"><sup>2</sup>who testifies to everything he saw—that is, the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_3"><sup>3</sup>Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear it and take to heart what is written in it, because the time is near. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Greetings and Doxology </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>John, <br/> To the seven churches in the province of Asia: <br/> Grace and peace to you from him who is, and who was, and who is to come, and from the seven spirits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the sevenfold Spirit">⚓</a> before his throne, </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_5"><sup>5</sup>and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. <br/> To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood, </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_6"><sup>6</sup>and has made us to be a kingdom and priests to serve his God and Father—to him be glory and power for ever and ever! Amen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_1_7">  <sup>7</sup>“Look, he is coming with the clouds,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Daniel 7:13">⚓</a><br/>   and “every eye will see him, <br/>  even those who pierced him”; <br/>   and all peoples on earth “will mourn because of him.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Zech. 12:10">⚓</a><br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">So shall it be! Amen. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>“I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says the Lord God, “who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>John’s Vision of Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>I, John, your brother and companion in the suffering and kingdom and patient endurance that are ours in Jesus, was on the island of Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_10"><sup>10</sup>On the Lord’s Day I was in the Spirit, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet, </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_11"><sup>11</sup>which said: <font color="red">“Write on a scroll what you see and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>I turned around to see the voice that was speaking to me. And when I turned I saw seven golden lampstands, </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_13"><sup>13</sup>and among the lampstands was someone like a son of man,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Daniel 7:13.">⚓</a> dressed in a robe reaching down to his feet and with a golden sash around his chest. </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_14"><sup>14</sup>The hair on his head was white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were like blazing fire. </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_15"><sup>15</sup>His feet were like bronze glowing in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of rushing waters. </span>
<span class="verse kh_1_16"><sup>16</sup>In his right hand he held seven stars, and coming out of his mouth was a sharp, double-edged sword. His face was like the sun shining in all its brilliance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. Then he placed his right hand on me and said: <font color="red">“Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_1_18"><sup>18</sup><font color="red">I am the Living One; I was dead, and now look, I am alive for ever and ever! And I hold the keys of death and Hades.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_1_19"> <sup>19</sup><font color="red">“Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now and what will take place later.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_1_20"><sup>20</sup><font color="red">The mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and of the seven golden lampstands is this: The seven stars are the angels</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or messengers">⚓</a><font color="red">of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.</font><br/></span>
