---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>To the Church in Ephesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_2_1"> <sup>1</sup><font color="red">“To the angel</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 2:1 Or  messenger ; also in verses 8, 12 and 18 ">⚓</a><font color="red">of the church in Ephesus write: </font><br/> <font color="red">These are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_2"><sup>2</sup><font color="red">I know your deeds, your hard work and your perseverance. I know that you cannot tolerate wicked people, that you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_3"><sup>3</sup><font color="red">You have persevered and have endured hardships for my name, and have not grown weary.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_4"> <sup>4</sup><font color="red">Yet I hold this against you: You have forsaken the love you had at first.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">Consider how far you have fallen! Repent and do the things you did at first. If you do not repent, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">But you have this in your favor: You hate the practices of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_7"> <sup>7</sup><font color="red">Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who is victorious, I will give the right to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>To the Church in Smyrna </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_2_8"> <sup>8</sup><font color="red">“To the angel of the church in Smyrna write:</font><br/> <font color="red">These are the words of him who is the First and the Last, who died and came to life again.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">I know your afflictions and your poverty—yet you are rich! I know about the slander of those who say they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">Do not be afraid of what you are about to suffer. I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison to test you, and you will suffer persecution for ten days. Be faithful, even to the point of death, and I will give you life as your victor’s crown.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_11"> <sup>11</sup><font color="red">Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who is victorious will not be hurt at all by the second death.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>To the Church in Pergamum </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_2_12"> <sup>12</sup><font color="red">“To the angel of the church in Pergamum write:</font><br/> <font color="red">These are the words of him who has the sharp, double-edged sword.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">I know where you live—where Satan has his throne. Yet you remain true to my name. You did not renounce your faith in me, not even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was put to death in your city—where Satan lives.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_14"> <sup>14</sup><font color="red">Nevertheless, I have a few things against you: There are some among you who hold to the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to entice the Israelites to sin so that they ate food sacrificed to idols and committed sexual immorality.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_15"><sup>15</sup><font color="red">Likewise, you also have those who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_16"><sup>16</sup><font color="red">Repent therefore! Otherwise, I will soon come to you and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_17"> <sup>17</sup><font color="red">Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who is victorious, I will give some of the hidden manna. I will also give that person a white stone with a new name written on it, known only to the one who receives it.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>To the Church in Thyatira </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_2_18"> <sup>18</sup><font color="red">“To the angel of the church in Thyatira write:</font><br/> <font color="red">These are the words of the Son of God, whose eyes are like blazing fire and whose feet are like burnished bronze.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_19"><sup>19</sup><font color="red">I know your deeds, your love and faith, your service and perseverance, and that you are now doing more than you did at first.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_20"> <sup>20</sup><font color="red">Nevertheless, I have this against you: You tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophet. By her teaching she misleads my servants into sexual immorality and the eating of food sacrificed to idols.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_21"><sup>21</sup><font color="red">I have given her time to repent of her immorality, but she is unwilling.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_22"><sup>22</sup><font color="red">So I will cast her on a bed of suffering, and I will make those who commit adultery with her suffer intensely, unless they repent of her ways.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">I will strike her children dead. Then all the churches will know that I am he who searches hearts and minds, and I will repay each of you according to your deeds.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_24"> <sup>24</sup><font color="red">Now I say to the rest of you in Thyatira, to you who do not hold to her teaching and have not learned Satan’s so-called deep secrets, ‘I will not impose any other burden on you,</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_25"><sup>25</sup><font color="red">except to hold on to what you have until I come.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_26"> <sup>26</sup><font color="red">To the one who is victorious and does my will to the end, I will give authority over the nations—</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_27"><sup>27</sup><font color="red">that one ‘will rule them with an iron scepter and will dash them to pieces like pottery’</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 2:9">⚓</a><font color="red">—just as I have received authority from my Father.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_28"><sup>28</sup><font color="red">I will also give that one the morning star.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_2_29"><sup>29</sup><font color="red">Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches.</font><br/></span>
