---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>To the Church in Sardis </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_3_1"> <sup>1</sup><font color="red">“To the angel</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 3:1 Or  messenger ; also in verses 7 and 14 ">⚓</a><font color="red">of the church in Sardis write: </font><br/> <font color="red">These are the words of him who holds the seven spirits</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 3:1 That is, the sevenfold Spirit ">⚓</a><font color="red">of God and the seven stars. I know your deeds; you have a reputation of being alive, but you are dead.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_2"><sup>2</sup><font color="red">Wake up! Strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have found your deeds unfinished in the sight of my God.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_3"><sup>3</sup><font color="red">Remember, therefore, what you have received and heard; hold it fast, and repent. But if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what time I will come to you.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_4"> <sup>4</sup><font color="red">Yet you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their clothes. They will walk with me, dressed in white, for they are worthy.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">The one who is victorious will, like them, be dressed in white. I will never blot out the name of that person from the book of life, but will acknowledge that name before my Father and his angels.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>To the Church in Philadelphia </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_3_7"> <sup>7</sup><font color="red">“To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: </font><br/> <font color="red">These are the words of him who is holy and true, who holds the key of David. What he opens no one can shut, and what he shuts no one can open.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_8"><sup>8</sup><font color="red">I know your deeds. See, I have placed before you an open door that no one can shut. I know that you have little strength, yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">I will make those who are of the synagogue of Satan, who claim to be Jews though they are not, but are liars—I will make them come and fall down at your feet and acknowledge that I have loved you.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">Since you have kept my command to endure patiently, I will also keep you from the hour of trial that is going to come on the whole world to test the inhabitants of the earth.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_11"> <sup>11</sup><font color="red">I am coming soon. Hold on to what you have, so that no one will take your crown.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_12"><sup>12</sup><font color="red">The one who is victorious I will make a pillar in the temple of my God. Never again will they leave it. I will write on them the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which is coming down out of heaven from my God; and I will also write on them my new name.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>To the Church in Laodicea </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_3_14"> <sup>14</sup><font color="red">“To the angel of the church in Laodicea write:</font><br/> <font color="red">These are the words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the ruler of God’s creation.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_15"><sup>15</sup><font color="red">I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were either one or the other!</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_16"><sup>16</sup><font color="red">So, because you are lukewarm—neither hot nor cold—I am about to spit you out of my mouth.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_17"><sup>17</sup><font color="red">You say, ‘I am rich; I have acquired wealth and do not need a thing.’ But you do not realize that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind and naked.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_18"><sup>18</sup><font color="red">I counsel you to buy from me gold refined in the fire, so you can become rich; and white clothes to wear, so you can cover your shameful nakedness; and salve to put on your eyes, so you can see.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_19"> <sup>19</sup><font color="red">Those whom I love I rebuke and discipline. So be earnest and repent.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_20"><sup>20</sup><font color="red">Here I am! I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that person, and they with me.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_21"> <sup>21</sup><font color="red">To the one who is victorious, I will give the right to sit with me on my throne, just as I was victorious and sat down with my Father on his throne.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_3_22"><sup>22</sup><font color="red">Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches.”</font><br/></span>
