---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>The Throne in Heaven </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>After this I looked, and there before me was a door standing open in heaven. And the voice I had first heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, <font color="red">“Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this.”</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_4_2"><sup>2</sup>At once I was in the Spirit, and there before me was a throne in heaven with someone sitting on it. </span>
<span class="verse kh_4_3"><sup>3</sup>And the one who sat there had the appearance of jasper and ruby. A rainbow that shone like an emerald encircled the throne. </span>
<span class="verse kh_4_4"><sup>4</sup>Surrounding the throne were twenty-four other thrones, and seated on them were twenty-four elders. They were dressed in white and had crowns of gold on their heads. </span>
<span class="verse kh_4_5"><sup>5</sup>From the throne came flashes of lightning, rumblings and peals of thunder. In front of the throne, seven lamps were blazing. These are the seven spirits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the sevenfold Spirit">⚓</a> of God. </span>
<span class="verse kh_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Also in front of the throne there was what looked like a sea of glass, clear as crystal. <br/> In the center, around the throne, were four living creatures, and they were covered with eyes, in front and in back. </span>
<span class="verse kh_4_7"><sup>7</sup>The first living creature was like a lion, the second was like an ox, the third had a face like a man, the fourth was like a flying eagle. </span>
<span class="verse kh_4_8"><sup>8</sup>Each of the four living creatures had six wings and was covered with eyes all around, even under its wings. Day and night they never stop saying: <br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">“ ‘Holy, holy, holy </aside><br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">is the Lord God Almighty,’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 6:3">⚓</a></aside><br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">who was, and is, and is to come.” </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_4_9"><sup>9</sup>Whenever the living creatures give glory, honor and thanks to him who sits on the throne and who lives for ever and ever, </span>
<span class="verse kh_4_10"><sup>10</sup>the twenty-four elders fall down before him who sits on the throne and worship him who lives for ever and ever. They lay their crowns before the throne and say: <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_4_11">  <sup>11</sup>“You are worthy, our Lord and God, <br/>   to receive glory and honor and power, <br/>  for you created all things, <br/>   and by your will they were created <br/>   and have their being.” <br/></span>
