---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>The Scroll and the Lamb </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll with writing on both sides and sealed with seven seals. </span>
<span class="verse kh_5_2"><sup>2</sup>And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming in a loud voice, “Who is worthy to break the seals and open the scroll?” </span>
<span class="verse kh_5_3"><sup>3</sup>But no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth could open the scroll or even look inside it. </span>
<span class="verse kh_5_4"><sup>4</sup>I wept and wept because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or look inside. </span>
<span class="verse kh_5_5"><sup>5</sup>Then one of the elders said to me, “Do not weep! See, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has triumphed. He is able to open the scroll and its seven seals.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then I saw a Lamb, looking as if it had been slain, standing at the center of the throne, encircled by the four living creatures and the elders. The Lamb had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the sevenfold Spirit">⚓</a> of God sent out into all the earth. </span>
<span class="verse kh_5_7"><sup>7</sup>He went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who sat on the throne. </span>
<span class="verse kh_5_8"><sup>8</sup>And when he had taken it, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each one had a harp and they were holding golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of God’s people. </span>
<span class="verse kh_5_9"><sup>9</sup>And they sang a new song, saying: <br/>  “You are worthy to take the scroll <br/>   and to open its seals, <br/>  because you were slain, <br/>   and with your blood you purchased for God <br/>   persons from every tribe and language and people and nation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_5_10">  <sup>10</sup>You have made them to be a kingdom and priests to serve our God, <br/>   and they will reign<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts they reign">⚓</a> on the earth.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_5_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then I looked and heard the voice of many angels, numbering thousands upon thousands, and ten thousand times ten thousand. They encircled the throne and the living creatures and the elders. </span>
<span class="verse kh_5_12"><sup>12</sup>In a loud voice they were saying: <br/>  “Worthy is the Lamb, who was slain, <br/>   to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength <br/>   and honor and glory and praise!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea, and all that is in them, saying: <br/>  “To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb <br/>   be praise and honor and glory and power, <br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">for ever and ever!” </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_5_14"><sup>14</sup>The four living creatures said, “Amen,” and the elders fell down and worshiped. <br/></span>
