---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>The Seals </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>I watched as the Lamb opened the first of the seven seals. Then I heard one of the four living creatures say in a voice like thunder, “Come!” </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_2"><sup>2</sup>I looked, and there before me was a white horse! Its rider held a bow, and he was given a crown, and he rode out as a conqueror bent on conquest. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_6_3"> <sup>3</sup>When the Lamb opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, “Come!” </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_4"><sup>4</sup>Then another horse came out, a fiery red one. Its rider was given power to take peace from the earth and to make people kill each other. To him was given a large sword. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_6_5"> <sup>5</sup>When the Lamb opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, “Come!” I looked, and there before me was a black horse! Its rider was holding a pair of scales in his hand. </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_6"><sup>6</sup>Then I heard what sounded like a voice among the four living creatures, saying, “Two pounds<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 1 kilogram">⚓</a> of wheat for a day’s wages,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek a denarius">⚓</a> and six pounds<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 3 kilograms">⚓</a> of barley for a day’s wages,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek a denarius">⚓</a> and do not damage the oil and the wine!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_6_7"> <sup>7</sup>When the Lamb opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, “Come!” </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_8"><sup>8</sup>I looked, and there before me was a pale horse! Its rider was named Death, and Hades was following close behind him. They were given power over a fourth of the earth to kill by sword, famine and plague, and by the wild beasts of the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and the testimony they had maintained. </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_10"><sup>10</sup>They called out in a loud voice, “How long, Sovereign Lord, holy and true, until you judge the inhabitants of the earth and avenge our blood?” </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_11"><sup>11</sup>Then each of them was given a white robe, and they were told to wait a little longer, until the full number of their fellow servants, their brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in 12:10; 19:10.">⚓</a> were killed just as they had been. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>I watched as he opened the sixth seal. There was a great earthquake. The sun turned black like sackcloth made of goat hair, the whole moon turned blood red, </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_13"><sup>13</sup>and the stars in the sky fell to earth, as figs drop from a fig tree when shaken by a strong wind. </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_14"><sup>14</sup>The heavens receded like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the kings of the earth, the princes, the generals, the rich, the mighty, and everyone else, both slave and free, hid in caves and among the rocks of the mountains. </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_16"><sup>16</sup>They called to the mountains and the rocks, “Fall on us and hide us<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Hosea 10:8.">⚓</a> from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb! </span>
<span class="verse kh_6_17"><sup>17</sup>For the great day of their<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts his">⚓</a> wrath has come, and who can withstand it?” <br/></span>
