---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>144,000 Sealed </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth to prevent any wind from blowing on the land or on the sea or on any tree. </span>
<span class="verse kh_7_2"><sup>2</sup>Then I saw another angel coming up from the east, having the seal of the living God. He called out in a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm the land and the sea: </span>
<span class="verse kh_7_3"><sup>3</sup>“Do not harm the land or the sea or the trees until we put a seal on the foreheads of the servants of our God.” </span>
<span class="verse kh_7_4"><sup>4</sup>Then I heard the number of those who were sealed: 144,000 from all the tribes of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_5">  <sup>5</sup>From the tribe of Judah 12,000 were sealed, <br/>  from the tribe of Reuben 12,000, <br/>  from the tribe of Gad 12,000, <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_6">  <sup>6</sup>from the tribe of Asher 12,000, <br/>  from the tribe of Naphtali 12,000, <br/>  from the tribe of Manasseh 12,000, <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_7">  <sup>7</sup>from the tribe of Simeon 12,000, <br/>  from the tribe of Levi 12,000, <br/>  from the tribe of Issachar 12,000, <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_8">  <sup>8</sup>from the tribe of Zebulun 12,000, <br/>  from the tribe of Joseph 12,000, <br/>  from the tribe of Benjamin 12,000. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Great Multitude in White Robes </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_7_9"> <sup>9</sup>After this I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no one could count, from every nation, tribe, people and language, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. They were wearing white robes and were holding palm branches in their hands. </span>
<span class="verse kh_7_10"><sup>10</sup>And they cried out in a loud voice: <br/>  “Salvation belongs to our God, <br/>  who sits on the throne, <br/>  and to the Lamb.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_11"><sup>11</sup>All the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures. They fell down on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, </span>
<span class="verse kh_7_12"><sup>12</sup>saying: <br/>  “Amen! <br/>  Praise and glory <br/>  and wisdom and thanks and honor <br/>  and power and strength <br/>  be to our God for ever and ever. <br/>  Amen!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then one of the elders asked me, “These in white robes—who are they, and where did they come from?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_14"> <sup>14</sup>I answered, “Sir, you know.” <br/> And he said, “These are they who have come out of the great tribulation; they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. </span>
<span class="verse kh_7_15"><sup>15</sup>Therefore, <br/>  “they are before the throne of God <br/>   and serve him day and night in his temple; <br/>  and he who sits on the throne <br/>   will shelter them with his presence. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_16">  <sup>16</sup>‘Never again will they hunger; <br/>   never again will they thirst. <br/>  The sun will not beat down on them,’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 49:10">⚓</a><br/>   nor any scorching heat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_7_17">  <sup>17</sup>For the Lamb at the center of the throne <br/>   will be their shepherd; <br/>  ‘he will lead them to springs of living water.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 49:10">⚓</a><br/>   ‘And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 25:8">⚓</a> ” <br/></span>
