---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The Seventh Seal and the Golden Censer </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>When he opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_8_2"> <sup>2</sup>And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_8_3"> <sup>3</sup>Another angel, who had a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. He was given much incense to offer, with the prayers of all God’s people, on the golden altar in front of the throne. </span>
<span class="verse kh_8_4"><sup>4</sup>The smoke of the incense, together with the prayers of God’s people, went up before God from the angel’s hand. </span>
<span class="verse kh_8_5"><sup>5</sup>Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the altar, and hurled it on the earth; and there came peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes of lightning and an earthquake. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Trumpets </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_8_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared to sound them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_8_7"> <sup>7</sup>The first angel sounded his trumpet, and there came hail and fire mixed with blood, and it was hurled down on the earth. A third of the earth was burned up, a third of the trees were burned up, and all the green grass was burned up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_8_8"> <sup>8</sup>The second angel sounded his trumpet, and something like a huge mountain, all ablaze, was thrown into the sea. A third of the sea turned into blood, </span>
<span class="verse kh_8_9"><sup>9</sup>a third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_8_10"> <sup>10</sup>The third angel sounded his trumpet, and a great star, blazing like a torch, fell from the sky on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water— </span>
<span class="verse kh_8_11"><sup>11</sup>the name of the star is Wormwood.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Wormwood is a bitter substance.">⚓</a> A third of the waters turned bitter, and many people died from the waters that had become bitter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_8_12"> <sup>12</sup>The fourth angel sounded his trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of them turned dark. A third of the day was without light, and also a third of the night. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_8_13"> <sup>13</sup>As I watched, I heard an eagle that was flying in midair call out in a loud voice: “Woe! Woe! Woe to the inhabitants of the earth, because of the trumpet blasts about to be sounded by the other three angels!” <br/></span>
