---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1></div>
<span class="verse kh_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>The fifth angel sounded his trumpet, and I saw a star that had fallen from the sky to the earth. The star was given the key to the shaft of the Abyss. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_2"><sup>2</sup>When he opened the Abyss, smoke rose from it like the smoke from a gigantic furnace. The sun and sky were darkened by the smoke from the Abyss. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_3"><sup>3</sup>And out of the smoke locusts came down on the earth and were given power like that of scorpions of the earth. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_4"><sup>4</sup>They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any plant or tree, but only those people who did not have the seal of God on their foreheads. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_5"><sup>5</sup>They were not allowed to kill them but only to torture them for five months. And the agony they suffered was like that of the sting of a scorpion when it strikes. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_6"><sup>6</sup>During those days people will seek death but will not find it; they will long to die, but death will elude them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>The locusts looked like horses prepared for battle. On their heads they wore something like crowns of gold, and their faces resembled human faces. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_8"><sup>8</sup>Their hair was like women’s hair, and their teeth were like lions’ teeth. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_9"><sup>9</sup>They had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the sound of their wings was like the thundering of many horses and chariots rushing into battle. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_10"><sup>10</sup>They had tails with stingers, like scorpions, and in their tails they had power to torment people for five months. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_11"><sup>11</sup>They had as king over them the angel of the Abyss, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon and in Greek is Apollyon (that is, Destroyer). <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_9_12"> <sup>12</sup>The first woe is past; two other woes are yet to come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_9_13"> <sup>13</sup>The sixth angel sounded his trumpet, and I heard a voice coming from the four horns of the golden altar that is before God. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_14"><sup>14</sup>It said to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, “Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates.” </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_15"><sup>15</sup>And the four angels who had been kept ready for this very hour and day and month and year were released to kill a third of mankind. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_16"><sup>16</sup>The number of the mounted troops was twice ten thousand times ten thousand. I heard their number. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_9_17"> <sup>17</sup>The horses and riders I saw in my vision looked like this: Their breastplates were fiery red, dark blue, and yellow as sulfur. The heads of the horses resembled the heads of lions, and out of their mouths came fire, smoke and sulfur. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_18"><sup>18</sup>A third of mankind was killed by the three plagues of fire, smoke and sulfur that came out of their mouths. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_19"><sup>19</sup>The power of the horses was in their mouths and in their tails; for their tails were like snakes, having heads with which they inflict injury. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_9_20"> <sup>20</sup>The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues still did not repent of the work of their hands; they did not stop worshiping demons, and idols of gold, silver, bronze, stone and wood—idols that cannot see or hear or walk. </span>
<span class="verse kh_9_21"><sup>21</sup>Nor did they repent of their murders, their magic arts, their sexual immorality or their thefts. <br/></span>
