---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Angel and the Little Scroll </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven. He was robed in a cloud, with a rainbow above his head; his face was like the sun, and his legs were like fiery pillars. </span>
<span class="verse kh_10_2"><sup>2</sup>He was holding a little scroll, which lay open in his hand. He planted his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land, </span>
<span class="verse kh_10_3"><sup>3</sup>and he gave a loud shout like the roar of a lion. When he shouted, the voices of the seven thunders spoke. </span>
<span class="verse kh_10_4"><sup>4</sup>And when the seven thunders spoke, I was about to write; but I heard a voice from heaven say, “Seal up what the seven thunders have said and do not write it down.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_10_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the angel I had seen standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven. </span>
<span class="verse kh_10_6"><sup>6</sup>And he swore by him who lives for ever and ever, who created the heavens and all that is in them, the earth and all that is in it, and the sea and all that is in it, and said, “There will be no more delay! </span>
<span class="verse kh_10_7"><sup>7</sup>But in the days when the seventh angel is about to sound his trumpet, the mystery of God will be accomplished, just as he announced to his servants the prophets.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_10_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then the voice that I had heard from heaven spoke to me once more: “Go, take the scroll that lies open in the hand of the angel who is standing on the sea and on the land.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_10_9"> <sup>9</sup>So I went to the angel and asked him to give me the little scroll. He said to me, “Take it and eat it. It will turn your stomach sour, but ‘in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Ezek. 3:3">⚓</a> ” </span>
<span class="verse kh_10_10"><sup>10</sup>I took the little scroll from the angel’s hand and ate it. It tasted as sweet as honey in my mouth, but when I had eaten it, my stomach turned sour. </span>
<span class="verse kh_10_11"><sup>11</sup>Then I was told, “You must prophesy again about many peoples, nations, languages and kings.” <br/></span>
