---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>The Two Witnesses </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>I was given a reed like a measuring rod and was told, “Go and measure the temple of God and the altar, with its worshipers. </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_2"><sup>2</sup>But exclude the outer court; do not measure it, because it has been given to the Gentiles. They will trample on the holy city for 42 months. </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_3"><sup>3</sup>And I will appoint my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in sackcloth.” </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_4"><sup>4</sup>They are “the two olive trees” and the two lampstands, and “they stand before the Lord of the earth.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Zech. 4:3,11,14.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse kh_11_5"><sup>5</sup>If anyone tries to harm them, fire comes from their mouths and devours their enemies. This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die. </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_6"><sup>6</sup>They have power to shut up the heavens so that it will not rain during the time they are prophesying; and they have power to turn the waters into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they want. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now when they have finished their testimony, the beast that comes up from the Abyss will attack them, and overpower and kill them. </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_8"><sup>8</sup>Their bodies will lie in the public square of the great city—which is figuratively called Sodom and Egypt—where also their Lord was crucified. </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_9"><sup>9</sup>For three and a half days some from every people, tribe, language and nation will gaze on their bodies and refuse them burial. </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_10"><sup>10</sup>The inhabitants of the earth will gloat over them and will celebrate by sending each other gifts, because these two prophets had tormented those who live on the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_11_11"> <sup>11</sup>But after the three and a half days the breath<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Spirit (see Ezek. 37:5,14)">⚓</a> of life from God entered them, and they stood on their feet, and terror struck those who saw them. </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_12"><sup>12</sup>Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, “Come up here.” And they went up to heaven in a cloud, while their enemies looked on. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>At that very hour there was a severe earthquake and a tenth of the city collapsed. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the survivors were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>The second woe has passed; the third woe is coming soon. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Seventh Trumpet </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_11_15"> <sup>15</sup>The seventh angel sounded his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, which said: <br/>  “The kingdom of the world has become <br/>   the kingdom of our Lord and of his Messiah, <br/>   and he will reign for ever and ever.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_11_16"><sup>16</sup>And the twenty-four elders, who were seated on their thrones before God, fell on their faces and worshiped God, </span>
<span class="verse kh_11_17"><sup>17</sup>saying: <br/>  “We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, <br/>   the One who is and who was, <br/>  because you have taken your great power <br/>   and have begun to reign. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_11_18">  <sup>18</sup>The nations were angry, <br/>   and your wrath has come. <br/>  The time has come for judging the dead, <br/>   and for rewarding your servants the prophets <br/>  and your people who revere your name, <br/>   both great and small— <br/>  and for destroying those who destroy the earth.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_11_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then God’s temple in heaven was opened, and within his temple was seen the ark of his covenant. And there came flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake and a severe hailstorm. <br/></span>
