---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>The Woman and the Dragon </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>A great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars on her head. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_2"><sup>2</sup>She was pregnant and cried out in pain as she was about to give birth. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_3"><sup>3</sup>Then another sign appeared in heaven: an enormous red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on its heads. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_4"><sup>4</sup>Its tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky and flung them to the earth. The dragon stood in front of the woman who was about to give birth, so that it might devour her child the moment he was born. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_5"><sup>5</sup>She gave birth to a son, a male child, who “will rule all the nations with an iron scepter.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 2:9">⚓</a> And her child was snatched up to God and to his throne. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_6"><sup>6</sup>The woman fled into the wilderness to a place prepared for her by God, where she might be taken care of for 1,260 days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_8"><sup>8</sup>But he was not strong enough, and they lost their place in heaven. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_9"><sup>9</sup>The great dragon was hurled down—that ancient serpent called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled to the earth, and his angels with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_12_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then I heard a loud voice in heaven say: <br/>  “Now have come the salvation and the power <br/>   and the kingdom of our God, <br/>   and the authority of his Messiah. <br/>  For the accuser of our brothers and sisters, <br/>   who accuses them before our God day and night, <br/>   has been hurled down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_12_11">  <sup>11</sup>They triumphed over him <br/>   by the blood of the Lamb <br/>   and by the word of their testimony; <br/>  they did not love their lives so much <br/>   as to shrink from death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_12_12">  <sup>12</sup>Therefore rejoice, you heavens <br/>   and you who dwell in them! <br/>  But woe to the earth and the sea, <br/>   because the devil has gone down to you! <br/>  He is filled with fury, <br/>   because he knows that his time is short.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>When the dragon saw that he had been hurled to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_14"><sup>14</sup>The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly to the place prepared for her in the wilderness, where she would be taken care of for a time, times and half a time, out of the serpent’s reach. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_15"><sup>15</sup>Then from his mouth the serpent spewed water like a river, to overtake the woman and sweep her away with the torrent. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_16"><sup>16</sup>But the earth helped the woman by opening its mouth and swallowing the river that the dragon had spewed out of his mouth. </span>
<span class="verse kh_12_17"><sup>17</sup>Then the dragon was enraged at the woman and went off to wage war against the rest of her offspring—those who keep God’s commands and hold fast their testimony about Jesus. <br/></span>
