---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>The Beast out of the Sea </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>The dragon<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts And I">⚓</a> stood on the shore of the sea. And I saw a beast coming out of the sea. It had ten horns and seven heads, with ten crowns on its horns, and on each head a blasphemous name. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_2"><sup>2</sup>The beast I saw resembled a leopard, but had feet like those of a bear and a mouth like that of a lion. The dragon gave the beast his power and his throne and great authority. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_3"><sup>3</sup>One of the heads of the beast seemed to have had a fatal wound, but the fatal wound had been healed. The whole world was filled with wonder and followed the beast. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_4"><sup>4</sup>People worshiped the dragon because he had given authority to the beast, and they also worshiped the beast and asked, “Who is like the beast? Who can wage war against it?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_13_5"> <sup>5</sup>The beast was given a mouth to utter proud words and blasphemies and to exercise its authority for forty-two months. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_6"><sup>6</sup>It opened its mouth to blaspheme God, and to slander his name and his dwelling place and those who live in heaven. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_7"><sup>7</sup>It was given power to wage war against God’s holy people and to conquer them. And it was given authority over every tribe, people, language and nation. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_8"><sup>8</sup>All inhabitants of the earth will worship the beast—all whose names have not been written in the Lamb’s book of life, the Lamb who was slain from the creation of the world.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or written from the creation of the world in the book of life belonging to the Lamb who was slain">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_13_9"> <sup>9</sup>Whoever has ears, let them hear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_13_10">  <sup>10</sup>“If anyone is to go into captivity, <br/>   into captivity they will go. <br/>  If anyone is to be killed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts anyone kills">⚓</a> with the sword, <br/>   with the sword they will be killed.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 15:2">⚓</a><br/>This calls for patient endurance and faithfulness on the part of God’s people. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Beast out of the Earth </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_13_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then I saw a second beast, coming out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb, but it spoke like a dragon. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_12"><sup>12</sup>It exercised all the authority of the first beast on its behalf, and made the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast, whose fatal wound had been healed. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_13"><sup>13</sup>And it performed great signs, even causing fire to come down from heaven to the earth in full view of the people. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_14"><sup>14</sup>Because of the signs it was given power to perform on behalf of the first beast, it deceived the inhabitants of the earth. It ordered them to set up an image in honor of the beast who was wounded by the sword and yet lived. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_15"><sup>15</sup>The second beast was given power to give breath to the image of the first beast, so that the image could speak and cause all who refused to worship the image to be killed. </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_16"><sup>16</sup>It also forced all people, great and small, rich and poor, free and slave, to receive a mark on their right hands or on their foreheads, </span>
<span class="verse kh_13_17"><sup>17</sup>so that they could not buy or sell unless they had the mark, which is the name of the beast or the number of its name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_13_18"> <sup>18</sup>This calls for wisdom. Let the person who has insight calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or is humanity’s number">⚓</a> That number is 666. <br/></span>
