---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>The Lamb and the 144,000 </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then I looked, and there before me was the Lamb, standing on Mount Zion, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his Father’s name written on their foreheads. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_2"><sup>2</sup>And I heard a sound from heaven like the roar of rushing waters and like a loud peal of thunder. The sound I heard was like that of harpists playing their harps. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_3"><sup>3</sup>And they sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_4"><sup>4</sup>These are those who did not defile themselves with women, for they remained virgins. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They were purchased from among mankind and offered as firstfruits to God and the Lamb. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_5"><sup>5</sup>No lie was found in their mouths; they are blameless. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Three Angels </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_14_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then I saw another angel flying in midair, and he had the eternal gospel to proclaim to those who live on the earth—to every nation, tribe, language and people. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_7"><sup>7</sup>He said in a loud voice, “Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea and the springs of water.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_14_8"> <sup>8</sup>A second angel followed and said, “ ‘Fallen! Fallen is Babylon the Great,’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 21:9">⚓</a> which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_14_9"> <sup>9</sup>A third angel followed them and said in a loud voice: “If anyone worships the beast and its image and receives its mark on their forehead or on their hand, </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_10"><sup>10</sup>they, too, will drink the wine of God’s fury, which has been poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. They will be tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_11"><sup>11</sup>And the smoke of their torment will rise for ever and ever. There will be no rest day or night for those who worship the beast and its image, or for anyone who receives the mark of its name.” </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_12"><sup>12</sup>This calls for patient endurance on the part of the people of God who keep his commands and remain faithful to Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then I heard a voice from heaven say, “Write this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.” <br/> “Yes,” says the Spirit, “they will rest from their labor, for their deeds will follow them.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Harvesting the Earth and Trampling the Winepress </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_14_14"> <sup>14</sup>I looked, and there before me was a white cloud, and seated on the cloud was one like a son of man<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Daniel 7:13.">⚓</a> with a crown of gold on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_15"><sup>15</sup>Then another angel came out of the temple and called in a loud voice to him who was sitting on the cloud, “Take your sickle and reap, because the time to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is ripe.” </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_16"><sup>16</sup>So he who was seated on the cloud swung his sickle over the earth, and the earth was harvested. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_14_17"> <sup>17</sup>Another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_18"><sup>18</sup>Still another angel, who had charge of the fire, came from the altar and called in a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, “Take your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of grapes from the earth’s vine, because its grapes are ripe.” </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_19"><sup>19</sup>The angel swung his sickle on the earth, gathered its grapes and threw them into the great winepress of God’s wrath. </span>
<span class="verse kh_14_20"><sup>20</sup>They were trampled in the winepress outside the city, and blood flowed out of the press, rising as high as the horses’ bridles for a distance of 1,600 stadia.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 180 miles or about 300 kilometers">⚓</a><br/></span>
