---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>The Seven Bowls of God’s Wrath </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then I heard a loud voice from the temple saying to the seven angels, “Go, pour out the seven bowls of God’s wrath on the earth.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_2"> <sup>2</sup>The first angel went and poured out his bowl on the land, and ugly, festering sores broke out on the people who had the mark of the beast and worshiped its image. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_3"> <sup>3</sup>The second angel poured out his bowl on the sea, and it turned into blood like that of a dead person, and every living thing in the sea died. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_4"> <sup>4</sup>The third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and springs of water, and they became blood. </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_5"><sup>5</sup>Then I heard the angel in charge of the waters say: <br/>  “You are just in these judgments, O Holy One, <br/>   you who are and who were; <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_6">  <sup>6</sup>for they have shed the blood of your holy people and your prophets, <br/>   and you have given them blood to drink as they deserve.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_7"><sup>7</sup>And I heard the altar respond: <br/>  “Yes, Lord God Almighty, <br/>   true and just are your judgments.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_8"> <sup>8</sup>The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and the sun was allowed to scorch people with fire. </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_9"><sup>9</sup>They were seared by the intense heat and they cursed the name of God, who had control over these plagues, but they refused to repent and glorify him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_10"> <sup>10</sup>The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and its kingdom was plunged into darkness. People gnawed their tongues in agony </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_11"><sup>11</sup>and cursed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, but they refused to repent of what they had done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_12"> <sup>12</sup>The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up to prepare the way for the kings from the East. </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_13"><sup>13</sup>Then I saw three impure spirits that looked like frogs; they came out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet. </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_14"><sup>14</sup>They are demonic spirits that perform signs, and they go out to the kings of the whole world, to gather them for the battle on the great day of God Almighty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_15"> <sup>15</sup><font color="red">“Look, I come like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays awake and remains clothed, so as not to go naked and be shamefully exposed.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_16"><sup>16</sup>Then they gathered the kings together to the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_16_17"> <sup>17</sup>The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and out of the temple came a loud voice from the throne, saying, “It is done!” </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_18"><sup>18</sup>Then there came flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder and a severe earthquake. No earthquake like it has ever occurred since mankind has been on earth, so tremendous was the quake. </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_19"><sup>19</sup>The great city split into three parts, and the cities of the nations collapsed. God remembered Babylon the Great and gave her the cup filled with the wine of the fury of his wrath. </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_20"><sup>20</sup>Every island fled away and the mountains could not be found. </span>
<span class="verse kh_16_21"><sup>21</sup>From the sky huge hailstones, each weighing about a hundred pounds,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 45 kilograms">⚓</a> fell on people. And they cursed God on account of the plague of hail, because the plague was so terrible. <br/></span>
