---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>Babylon, the Prostitute on the Beast </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and said to me, “Come, I will show you the punishment of the great prostitute, who sits by many waters. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_2"><sup>2</sup>With her the kings of the earth committed adultery, and the inhabitants of the earth were intoxicated with the wine of her adulteries.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_17_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then the angel carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness. There I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast that was covered with blasphemous names and had seven heads and ten horns. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_4"><sup>4</sup>The woman was dressed in purple and scarlet, and was glittering with gold, precious stones and pearls. She held a golden cup in her hand, filled with abominable things and the filth of her adulteries. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_5"><sup>5</sup>The name written on her forehead was a mystery: <br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">babylon the great </aside><br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">the mother of prostitutes </aside><br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">and of the abominations of the earth. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_17_6"><sup>6</sup>I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of God’s holy people, the blood of those who bore testimony to Jesus. <br/> When I saw her, I was greatly astonished. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_7"><sup>7</sup>Then the angel said to me: “Why are you astonished? I will explain to you the mystery of the woman and of the beast she rides, which has the seven heads and ten horns. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_8"><sup>8</sup>The beast, which you saw, once was, now is not, and yet will come up out of the Abyss and go to its destruction. The inhabitants of the earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the creation of the world will be astonished when they see the beast, because it once was, now is not, and yet will come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_17_9"> <sup>9</sup>“This calls for a mind with wisdom. The seven heads are seven hills on which the woman sits. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_10"><sup>10</sup>They are also seven kings. Five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come; but when he does come, he must remain for only a little while. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_11"><sup>11</sup>The beast who once was, and now is not, is an eighth king. He belongs to the seven and is going to his destruction. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_17_12"> <sup>12</sup>“The ten horns you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but who for one hour will receive authority as kings along with the beast. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_13"><sup>13</sup>They have one purpose and will give their power and authority to the beast. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_14"><sup>14</sup>They will wage war against the Lamb, but the Lamb will triumph over them because he is Lord of lords and King of kings—and with him will be his called, chosen and faithful followers.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_17_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the angel said to me, “The waters you saw, where the prostitute sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations and languages. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_16"><sup>16</sup>The beast and the ten horns you saw will hate the prostitute. They will bring her to ruin and leave her naked; they will eat her flesh and burn her with fire. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_17"><sup>17</sup>For God has put it into their hearts to accomplish his purpose by agreeing to hand over to the beast their royal authority, until God’s words are fulfilled. </span>
<span class="verse kh_17_18"><sup>18</sup>The woman you saw is the great city that rules over the kings of the earth.” <br/></span>
