---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>Lament Over Fallen Babylon </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven. He had great authority, and the earth was illuminated by his splendor. </span>
<span class="verse kh_18_2"><sup>2</sup>With a mighty voice he shouted: <br/>  “ ‘Fallen! Fallen is Babylon the Great!’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 21:9">⚓</a><br/>   She has become a dwelling for demons <br/>  and a haunt for every impure spirit, <br/>   a haunt for every unclean bird, <br/>   a haunt for every unclean and detestable animal. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_3">  <sup>3</sup>For all the nations have drunk <br/>   the maddening wine of her adulteries. <br/>  The kings of the earth committed adultery with her, <br/>   and the merchants of the earth grew rich from her excessive luxuries.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Warning to Escape Babylon’s Judgment </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_18_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then I heard another voice from heaven say: <br/>  “ ‘Come out of her, my people,’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 51:45">⚓</a><br/>   so that you will not share in her sins, <br/>   so that you will not receive any of her plagues; <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_5">  <sup>5</sup>for her sins are piled up to heaven, <br/>   and God has remembered her crimes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_6">  <sup>6</sup>Give back to her as she has given; <br/>   pay her back double for what she has done. <br/>   Pour her a double portion from her own cup. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_7">  <sup>7</sup>Give her as much torment and grief <br/>   as the glory and luxury she gave herself. <br/>  In her heart she boasts, <br/>   ‘I sit enthroned as queen. <br/>  I am not a widow;<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Isaiah 47:7,8.">⚓</a><br/>   I will never mourn.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_8">  <sup>8</sup>Therefore in one day her plagues will overtake her: <br/>   death, mourning and famine. <br/>  She will be consumed by fire, <br/>   for mighty is the Lord God who judges her. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Threefold Woe Over Babylon’s Fall </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>“When the kings of the earth who committed adultery with her and shared her luxury see the smoke of her burning, they will weep and mourn over her. </span>
<span class="verse kh_18_10"><sup>10</sup>Terrified at her torment, they will stand far off and cry: <br/>  “ ‘Woe! Woe to you, great city, <br/>   you mighty city of Babylon! <br/>  In one hour your doom has come!’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_11"> <sup>11</sup>“The merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her because no one buys their cargoes anymore— </span>
<span class="verse kh_18_12"><sup>12</sup>cargoes of gold, silver, precious stones and pearls; fine linen, purple, silk and scarlet cloth; every sort of citron wood, and articles of every kind made of ivory, costly wood, bronze, iron and marble; </span>
<span class="verse kh_18_13"><sup>13</sup>cargoes of cinnamon and spice, of incense, myrrh and frankincense, of wine and olive oil, of fine flour and wheat; cattle and sheep; horses and carriages; and human beings sold as slaves. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_14"> <sup>14</sup>“They will say, ‘The fruit you longed for is gone from you. All your luxury and splendor have vanished, never to be recovered.’ </span>
<span class="verse kh_18_15"><sup>15</sup>The merchants who sold these things and gained their wealth from her will stand far off, terrified at her torment. They will weep and mourn </span>
<span class="verse kh_18_16"><sup>16</sup>and cry out: <br/>  “ ‘Woe! Woe to you, great city, <br/>   dressed in fine linen, purple and scarlet, <br/>   and glittering with gold, precious stones and pearls! <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_17">  <sup>17</sup>In one hour such great wealth has been brought to ruin!’ <br/> “Every sea captain, and all who travel by ship, the sailors, and all who earn their living from the sea, will stand far off. </span>
<span class="verse kh_18_18"><sup>18</sup>When they see the smoke of her burning, they will exclaim, ‘Was there ever a city like this great city?’ </span>
<span class="verse kh_18_19"><sup>19</sup>They will throw dust on their heads, and with weeping and mourning cry out: <br/>  “ ‘Woe! Woe to you, great city, <br/>   where all who had ships on the sea <br/>   became rich through her wealth! <br/>  In one hour she has been brought to ruin!’ <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_20">  <sup>20</sup>“Rejoice over her, you heavens! <br/>   Rejoice, you people of God! <br/>   Rejoice, apostles and prophets! <br/>  For God has judged her <br/>   with the judgment she imposed on you.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Finality of Babylon’s Doom </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_18_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then a mighty angel picked up a boulder the size of a large millstone and threw it into the sea, and said: <br/>  “With such violence <br/>   the great city of Babylon will be thrown down, <br/>   never to be found again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_22">  <sup>22</sup>The music of harpists and musicians, pipers and trumpeters, <br/>   will never be heard in you again. <br/>  No worker of any trade <br/>   will ever be found in you again. <br/>  The sound of a millstone <br/>   will never be heard in you again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_23">  <sup>23</sup>The light of a lamp <br/>   will never shine in you again. <br/>  The voice of bridegroom and bride <br/>   will never be heard in you again. <br/>  Your merchants were the world’s important people. <br/>   By your magic spell all the nations were led astray. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_18_24">  <sup>24</sup>In her was found the blood of prophets and of God’s holy people, <br/>   of all who have been slaughtered on the earth.” <br/></span>
