---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>The Thousand Years </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key to the Abyss and holding in his hand a great chain. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_2"><sup>2</sup>He seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil, or Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_3"><sup>3</sup>He threw him into the Abyss, and locked and sealed it over him, to keep him from deceiving the nations anymore until the thousand years were ended. After that, he must be set free for a short time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_20_4"> <sup>4</sup>I saw thrones on which were seated those who had been given authority to judge. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony about Jesus and because of the word of God. They<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or God; I also saw those who">⚓</a> had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ a thousand years. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_5"><sup>5</sup>(The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended.) This is the first resurrection. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_6"><sup>6</sup>Blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection. The second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a thousand years. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Judgment of Satan </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_20_7"> <sup>7</sup>When the thousand years are over, Satan will be released from his prison </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_8"><sup>8</sup>and will go out to deceive the nations in the four corners of the earth—Gog and Magog—and to gather them for battle. In number they are like the sand on the seashore. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_9"><sup>9</sup>They marched across the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of God’s people, the city he loves. But fire came down from heaven and devoured them. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_10"><sup>10</sup>And the devil, who deceived them, was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown. They will be tormented day and night for ever and ever. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Judgment of the Dead </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_20_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then I saw a great white throne and him who was seated on it. The earth and the heavens fled from his presence, and there was no place for them. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_12"><sup>12</sup>And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Another book was opened, which is the book of life. The dead were judged according to what they had done as recorded in the books. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_13"><sup>13</sup>The sea gave up the dead that were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead that were in them, and each person was judged according to what they had done. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_14"><sup>14</sup>Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. The lake of fire is the second death. </span>
<span class="verse kh_20_15"><sup>15</sup>Anyone whose name was not found written in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire. <br/></span>
