---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>A New Heaven and a New Earth </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then I saw “a new heaven and a new earth,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 65:17">⚓</a> for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_2"><sup>2</sup>I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for her husband. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_3"><sup>3</sup>And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, “Look! God’s dwelling place is now among the people, and he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_4"><sup>4</sup>‘He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 25:8">⚓</a> or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_21_5"> <sup>5</sup>He who was seated on the throne said, “I am making everything new!” Then he said, “Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_21_6"> <sup>6</sup>He said to me: “It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. To the thirsty I will give water without cost from the spring of the water of life. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_7"><sup>7</sup>Those who are victorious will inherit all this, and I will be their God and they will be my children. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_8"><sup>8</sup>But the cowardly, the unbelieving, the vile, the murderers, the sexually immoral, those who practice magic arts, the idolaters and all liars—they will be consigned to the fiery lake of burning sulfur. This is the second death.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The New Jerusalem, the Bride of the Lamb </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_21_9"> <sup>9</sup>One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and said to me, “Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.” </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_10"><sup>10</sup>And he carried me away in the Spirit to a mountain great and high, and showed me the Holy City, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_11"><sup>11</sup>It shone with the glory of God, and its brilliance was like that of a very precious jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_12"><sup>12</sup>It had a great, high wall with twelve gates, and with twelve angels at the gates. On the gates were written the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_13"><sup>13</sup>There were three gates on the east, three on the north, three on the south and three on the west. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_14"><sup>14</sup>The wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_21_15"> <sup>15</sup>The angel who talked with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city, its gates and its walls. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_16"><sup>16</sup>The city was laid out like a square, as long as it was wide. He measured the city with the rod and found it to be 12,000 stadia<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1,400 miles or about 2,200 kilometers">⚓</a> in length, and as wide and high as it is long. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_17"><sup>17</sup>The angel measured the wall using human measurement, and it was 144 cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 200 feet or about 65 meters">⚓</a> thick.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or high">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse kh_21_18"><sup>18</sup>The wall was made of jasper, and the city of pure gold, as pure as glass. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_19"><sup>19</sup>The foundations of the city walls were decorated with every kind of precious stone. The first foundation was jasper, the second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald, </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_20"><sup>20</sup>the fifth onyx, the sixth ruby, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth turquoise, the eleventh jacinth, and the twelfth amethyst.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The precise identification of some of these precious stones is uncertain.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse kh_21_21"><sup>21</sup>The twelve gates were twelve pearls, each gate made of a single pearl. The great street of the city was of gold, as pure as transparent glass. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_21_22"> <sup>22</sup>I did not see a temple in the city, because the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_23"><sup>23</sup>The city does not need the sun or the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and the Lamb is its lamp. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_24"><sup>24</sup>The nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their splendor into it. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_25"><sup>25</sup>On no day will its gates ever be shut, for there will be no night there. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_26"><sup>26</sup>The glory and honor of the nations will be brought into it. </span>
<span class="verse kh_21_27"><sup>27</sup>Nothing impure will ever enter it, nor will anyone who does what is shameful or deceitful, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb’s book of life. <br/></span>
