---
translation: NIV
group: PROPHECY
bookName: Revelation 
bookNumber: 66
audio: \Audio\NIV\kh\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>Eden Restored </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, as clear as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb </span>
<span class="verse kh_22_2"><sup>2</sup>down the middle of the great street of the city. On each side of the river stood the tree of life, bearing twelve crops of fruit, yielding its fruit every month. And the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations. </span>
<span class="verse kh_22_3"><sup>3</sup>No longer will there be any curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city, and his servants will serve him. </span>
<span class="verse kh_22_4"><sup>4</sup>They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. </span>
<span class="verse kh_22_5"><sup>5</sup>There will be no more night. They will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun, for the Lord God will give them light. And they will reign for ever and ever. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>John and the Angel </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>The angel said to me, “These words are trustworthy and true. The Lord, the God who inspires the prophets, sent his angel to show his servants the things that must soon take place.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_7"> <sup>7</sup><font color="red">“Look, I am coming soon! Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy written in this scroll.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_8"> <sup>8</sup>I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I had heard and seen them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who had been showing them to me. </span>
<span class="verse kh_22_9"><sup>9</sup>But he said to me, “Don’t do that! I am a fellow servant with you and with your fellow prophets and with all who keep the words of this scroll. Worship God!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then he told me, “Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this scroll, because the time is near. </span>
<span class="verse kh_22_11"><sup>11</sup>Let the one who does wrong continue to do wrong; let the vile person continue to be vile; let the one who does right continue to do right; and let the holy person continue to be holy.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Epilogue: Invitation and Warning </h3></div>
<span class="verse kh_22_12"> <sup>12</sup><font color="red">“Look, I am coming soon! My reward is with me, and I will give to each person according to what they have done.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_14"> <sup>14</sup><font color="red">“Blessed are those who wash their robes, that they may have the right to the tree of life and may go through the gates into the city.</font></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_15"><sup>15</sup><font color="red">Outside are the dogs, those who practice magic arts, the sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_16"> <sup>16</sup><font color="red">“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give you</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 22:16 The Greek is plural. ">⚓</a><font color="red">this testimony for the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, and the bright Morning Star.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_17"> <sup>17</sup>The Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” And let the one who hears say, “Come!” Let the one who is thirsty come; and let the one who wishes take the free gift of the water of life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_18"> <sup>18</sup>I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this scroll: If anyone adds anything to them, God will add to that person the plagues described in this scroll. </span>
<span class="verse kh_22_19"><sup>19</sup>And if anyone takes words away from this scroll of prophecy, God will take away from that person any share in the tree of life and in the Holy City, which are described in this scroll. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_20"> <sup>20</sup>He who testifies to these things says, <font color="red">“Yes, I am coming soon.”</font><br/> Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse kh_22_21"> <sup>21</sup>The grace of the Lord Jesus be with God’s people. Amen. <br/></span>
