---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2co_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>So I made up my mind that I would not make another painful visit to you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_2"><sup>2</sup>For if I grieve you, who is left to make me glad but you whom I have grieved? </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_3"><sup>3</sup>I wrote as I did, so that when I came I would not be distressed by those who should have made me rejoice. I had confidence in all of you, that you would all share my joy. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_4"><sup>4</sup>For I wrote you out of great distress and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to grieve you but to let you know the depth of my love for you. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Forgiveness for the Offender </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>If anyone has caused grief, he has not so much grieved me as he has grieved all of you to some extent—not to put it too severely. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_6"><sup>6</sup>The punishment inflicted on him by the majority is sufficient. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_7"><sup>7</sup>Now instead, you ought to forgive and comfort him, so that he will not be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_8"><sup>8</sup>I urge you, therefore, to reaffirm your love for him. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_9"><sup>9</sup>Another reason I wrote you was to see if you would stand the test and be obedient in everything. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_10"><sup>10</sup>Anyone you forgive, I also forgive. And what I have forgiven—if there was anything to forgive—I have forgiven in the sight of Christ for your sake, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_11"><sup>11</sup>in order that Satan might not outwit us. For we are not unaware of his schemes. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ministers of the New Covenant </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_2_12"> <sup>12</sup>Now when I went to Troas to preach the gospel of Christ and found that the Lord had opened a door for me, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_13"><sup>13</sup>I still had no peace of mind, because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I said goodbye to them and went on to Macedonia. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>But thanks be to God, who always leads us as captives in Christ’s triumphal procession and uses us to spread the aroma of the knowledge of him everywhere. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_15"><sup>15</sup>For we are to God the pleasing aroma of Christ among those who are being saved and those who are perishing. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_16"><sup>16</sup>To the one we are an aroma that brings death; to the other, an aroma that brings life. And who is equal to such a task? </span>
<span class="verse 2co_2_17"><sup>17</sup>Unlike so many, we do not peddle the word of God for profit. On the contrary, in Christ we speak before God with sincerity, as those sent from God. <br/></span>
