---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2co_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or do we need, like some people, letters of recommendation to you or from you? </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_2"><sup>2</sup>You yourselves are our letter, written on our hearts, known and read by everyone. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_3"><sup>3</sup>You show that you are a letter from Christ, the result of our ministry, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_4"> <sup>4</sup>Such confidence we have through Christ before God. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_5"><sup>5</sup>Not that we are competent in ourselves to claim anything for ourselves, but our competence comes from God. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_6"><sup>6</sup>He has made us competent as ministers of a new covenant—not of the letter but of the Spirit; for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Greater Glory of the New Covenant </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now if the ministry that brought death, which was engraved in letters on stone, came with glory, so that the Israelites could not look steadily at the face of Moses because of its glory, transitory though it was, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_8"><sup>8</sup>will not the ministry of the Spirit be even more glorious? </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_9"><sup>9</sup>If the ministry that brought condemnation was glorious, how much more glorious is the ministry that brings righteousness! </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_10"><sup>10</sup>For what was glorious has no glory now in comparison with the surpassing glory. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_11"><sup>11</sup>And if what was transitory came with glory, how much greater is the glory of that which lasts! <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>Therefore, since we have such a hope, we are very bold. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_13"><sup>13</sup>We are not like Moses, who would put a veil over his face to prevent the Israelites from seeing the end of what was passing away. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_14"><sup>14</sup>But their minds were made dull, for to this day the same veil remains when the old covenant is read. It has not been removed, because only in Christ is it taken away. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_15"><sup>15</sup>Even to this day when Moses is read, a veil covers their hearts. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_16"><sup>16</sup>But whenever anyone turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_17"><sup>17</sup>Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_3_18"><sup>18</sup>And we all, who with unveiled faces contemplate<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or reflect">⚓</a> the Lord’s glory, are being transformed into his image with ever-increasing glory, which comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. <br/></span>
