---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Present Weakness and Resurrection Life </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore, since through God’s mercy we have this ministry, we do not lose heart. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_2"><sup>2</sup>Rather, we have renounced secret and shameful ways; we do not use deception, nor do we distort the word of God. On the contrary, by setting forth the truth plainly we commend ourselves to everyone’s conscience in the sight of God. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_3"><sup>3</sup>And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_4"><sup>4</sup>The god of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so that they cannot see the light of the gospel that displays the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_5"><sup>5</sup>For what we preach is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, and ourselves as your servants for Jesus’ sake. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_6"><sup>6</sup>For God, who said, “Let light shine out of darkness,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 1:3">⚓</a> made his light shine in our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of God’s glory displayed in the face of Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that this all-surpassing power is from God and not from us. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_8"><sup>8</sup>We are hard pressed on every side, but not crushed; perplexed, but not in despair; </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_9"><sup>9</sup>persecuted, but not abandoned; struck down, but not destroyed. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_10"><sup>10</sup>We always carry around in our body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be revealed in our body. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_11"><sup>11</sup>For we who are alive are always being given over to death for Jesus’ sake, so that his life may also be revealed in our mortal body. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_12"><sup>12</sup>So then, death is at work in us, but life is at work in you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>It is written: “I believed; therefore I have spoken.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 116:10 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a> Since we have that same spirit of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Spirit-given">⚓</a> faith, we also believe and therefore speak, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_14"><sup>14</sup>because we know that the one who raised the Lord Jesus from the dead will also raise us with Jesus and present us with you to himself. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_15"><sup>15</sup>All this is for your benefit, so that the grace that is reaching more and more people may cause thanksgiving to overflow to the glory of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_16"> <sup>16</sup>Therefore we do not lose heart. Though outwardly we are wasting away, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_17"><sup>17</sup>For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_4_18"><sup>18</sup>So we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is unseen, since what is seen is temporary, but what is unseen is eternal. <br/></span>
