---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Awaiting the New Body </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>For we know that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, an eternal house in heaven, not built by human hands. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_2"><sup>2</sup>Meanwhile we groan, longing to be clothed instead with our heavenly dwelling, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_3"><sup>3</sup>because when we are clothed, we will not be found naked. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_4"><sup>4</sup>For while we are in this tent, we groan and are burdened, because we do not wish to be unclothed but to be clothed instead with our heavenly dwelling, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_5"><sup>5</sup>Now the one who has fashioned us for this very purpose is God, who has given us the Spirit as a deposit, guaranteeing what is to come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>Therefore we are always confident and know that as long as we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_7"><sup>7</sup>For we live by faith, not by sight. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_8"><sup>8</sup>We are confident, I say, and would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_9"><sup>9</sup>So we make it our goal to please him, whether we are at home in the body or away from it. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_10"><sup>10</sup>For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each of us may receive what is due us for the things done while in the body, whether good or bad. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Ministry of Reconciliation </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_5_11"> <sup>11</sup>Since, then, we know what it is to fear the Lord, we try to persuade others. What we are is plain to God, and I hope it is also plain to your conscience. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_12"><sup>12</sup>We are not trying to commend ourselves to you again, but are giving you an opportunity to take pride in us, so that you can answer those who take pride in what is seen rather than in what is in the heart. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_13"><sup>13</sup>If we are “out of our mind,” as some say, it is for God; if we are in our right mind, it is for you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_14"><sup>14</sup>For Christ’s love compels us, because we are convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_15"><sup>15</sup>And he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves but for him who died for them and was raised again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_16"> <sup>16</sup>So from now on we regard no one from a worldly point of view. Though we once regarded Christ in this way, we do so no longer. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_17"><sup>17</sup>Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, the new creation has come:<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Christ, that person is a new creation.">⚓</a> The old has gone, the new is here! </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_18"><sup>18</sup>All this is from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation: </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_19"><sup>19</sup>that God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ, not counting people’s sins against them. And he has committed to us the message of reconciliation. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_20"><sup>20</sup>We are therefore Christ’s ambassadors, as though God were making his appeal through us. We implore you on Christ’s behalf: Be reconciled to God. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_5_21"><sup>21</sup>God made him who had no sin to be sin<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or be a sin offering">⚓</a> for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. <br/></span>
