---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2co_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore, since we have these promises, dear friends, let us purify ourselves from everything that contaminates body and spirit, perfecting holiness out of reverence for God. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Joy Over the Church’s Repentance </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_7_2"> <sup>2</sup>Make room for us in your hearts. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have exploited no one. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_3"><sup>3</sup>I do not say this to condemn you; I have said before that you have such a place in our hearts that we would live or die with you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_4"><sup>4</sup>I have spoken to you with great frankness; I take great pride in you. I am greatly encouraged; in all our troubles my joy knows no bounds. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_5"> <sup>5</sup>For when we came into Macedonia, we had no rest, but we were harassed at every turn—conflicts on the outside, fears within. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_6"><sup>6</sup>But God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_7"><sup>7</sup>and not only by his coming but also by the comfort you had given him. He told us about your longing for me, your deep sorrow, your ardent concern for me, so that my joy was greater than ever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_8"> <sup>8</sup>Even if I caused you sorrow by my letter, I do not regret it. Though I did regret it—I see that my letter hurt you, but only for a little while— </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_9"><sup>9</sup>yet now I am happy, not because you were made sorry, but because your sorrow led you to repentance. For you became sorrowful as God intended and so were not harmed in any way by us. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_10"><sup>10</sup>Godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret, but worldly sorrow brings death. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_11"><sup>11</sup>See what this godly sorrow has produced in you: what earnestness, what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what alarm, what longing, what concern, what readiness to see justice done. At every point you have proved yourselves to be innocent in this matter. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_12"><sup>12</sup>So even though I wrote to you, it was neither on account of the one who did the wrong nor on account of the injured party, but rather that before God you could see for yourselves how devoted to us you are. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_13"><sup>13</sup>By all this we are encouraged. <br/> In addition to our own encouragement, we were especially delighted to see how happy Titus was, because his spirit has been refreshed by all of you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_14"><sup>14</sup>I had boasted to him about you, and you have not embarrassed me. But just as everything we said to you was true, so our boasting about you to Titus has proved to be true as well. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_15"><sup>15</sup>And his affection for you is all the greater when he remembers that you were all obedient, receiving him with fear and trembling. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_7_16"><sup>16</sup>I am glad I can have complete confidence in you. <br/></span>
