---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The Collection for the Lord’s People </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>And now, brothers and sisters, we want you to know about the grace that God has given the Macedonian churches. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_2"><sup>2</sup>In the midst of a very severe trial, their overflowing joy and their extreme poverty welled up in rich generosity. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_3"><sup>3</sup>For I testify that they gave as much as they were able, and even beyond their ability. Entirely on their own, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_4"><sup>4</sup>they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service to the Lord’s people. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_5"><sup>5</sup>And they exceeded our expectations: They gave themselves first of all to the Lord, and then by the will of God also to us. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_6"><sup>6</sup>So we urged Titus, just as he had earlier made a beginning, to bring also to completion this act of grace on your part. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_7"><sup>7</sup>But since you excel in everything—in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in complete earnestness and in the love we have kindled in you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts and in your love for us">⚓</a> —see that you also excel in this grace of giving. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_8"> <sup>8</sup>I am not commanding you, but I want to test the sincerity of your love by comparing it with the earnestness of others. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_9"><sup>9</sup>For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_10"> <sup>10</sup>And here is my judgment about what is best for you in this matter. Last year you were the first not only to give but also to have the desire to do so. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_11"><sup>11</sup>Now finish the work, so that your eager willingness to do it may be matched by your completion of it, according to your means. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_12"><sup>12</sup>For if the willingness is there, the gift is acceptable according to what one has, not according to what one does not have. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_13"> <sup>13</sup>Our desire is not that others might be relieved while you are hard pressed, but that there might be equality. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_14"><sup>14</sup>At the present time your plenty will supply what they need, so that in turn their plenty will supply what you need. The goal is equality, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_15"><sup>15</sup>as it is written: “The one who gathered much did not have too much, and the one who gathered little did not have too little.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 16:18">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Titus Sent to Receive the Collection </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_8_16"> <sup>16</sup>Thanks be to God, who put into the heart of Titus the same concern I have for you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_17"><sup>17</sup>For Titus not only welcomed our appeal, but he is coming to you with much enthusiasm and on his own initiative. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_18"><sup>18</sup>And we are sending along with him the brother who is praised by all the churches for his service to the gospel. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_19"><sup>19</sup>What is more, he was chosen by the churches to accompany us as we carry the offering, which we administer in order to honor the Lord himself and to show our eagerness to help. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_20"><sup>20</sup>We want to avoid any criticism of the way we administer this liberal gift. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_21"><sup>21</sup>For we are taking pains to do what is right, not only in the eyes of the Lord but also in the eyes of man. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_22"> <sup>22</sup>In addition, we are sending with them our brother who has often proved to us in many ways that he is zealous, and now even more so because of his great confidence in you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_23"><sup>23</sup>As for Titus, he is my partner and co-worker among you; as for our brothers, they are representatives of the churches and an honor to Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_8_24"><sup>24</sup>Therefore show these men the proof of your love and the reason for our pride in you, so that the churches can see it. <br/></span>
