---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2co_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>There is no need for me to write to you about this service to the Lord’s people. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_2"><sup>2</sup>For I know your eagerness to help, and I have been boasting about it to the Macedonians, telling them that since last year you in Achaia were ready to give; and your enthusiasm has stirred most of them to action. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_3"><sup>3</sup>But I am sending the brothers in order that our boasting about you in this matter should not prove hollow, but that you may be ready, as I said you would be. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_4"><sup>4</sup>For if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we—not to say anything about you—would be ashamed of having been so confident. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_5"><sup>5</sup>So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to visit you in advance and finish the arrangements for the generous gift you had promised. Then it will be ready as a generous gift, not as one grudgingly given. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Generosity Encouraged </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_9_6"> <sup>6</sup>Remember this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_7"><sup>7</sup>Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_8"><sup>8</sup>And God is able to bless you abundantly, so that in all things at all times, having all that you need, you will abound in every good work. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_9"><sup>9</sup>As it is written: <br/>  “They have freely scattered their gifts to the poor; <br/>   their righteousness endures forever.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 112:9">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_10"><sup>10</sup>Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will also supply and increase your store of seed and will enlarge the harvest of your righteousness. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_11"><sup>11</sup>You will be enriched in every way so that you can be generous on every occasion, and through us your generosity will result in thanksgiving to God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_12"> <sup>12</sup>This service that you perform is not only supplying the needs of the Lord’s people but is also overflowing in many expressions of thanks to God. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_13"><sup>13</sup>Because of the service by which you have proved yourselves, others will praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel of Christ, and for your generosity in sharing with them and with everyone else. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_14"><sup>14</sup>And in their prayers for you their hearts will go out to you, because of the surpassing grace God has given you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_9_15"><sup>15</sup>Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift! <br/></span>
