---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>Paul’s Defense of His Ministry </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>By the humility and gentleness of Christ, I appeal to you—I, Paul, who am “timid” when face to face with you, but “bold” toward you when away! </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_2"><sup>2</sup>I beg you that when I come I may not have to be as bold as I expect to be toward some people who think that we live by the standards of this world. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_3"><sup>3</sup>For though we live in the world, we do not wage war as the world does. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_4"><sup>4</sup>The weapons we fight with are not the weapons of the world. On the contrary, they have divine power to demolish strongholds. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_5"><sup>5</sup>We demolish arguments and every pretension that sets itself up against the knowledge of God, and we take captive every thought to make it obedient to Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_6"><sup>6</sup>And we will be ready to punish every act of disobedience, once your obedience is complete. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_7"> <sup>7</sup>You are judging by appearances.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Look at the obvious facts">⚓</a> If anyone is confident that they belong to Christ, they should consider again that we belong to Christ just as much as they do. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_8"><sup>8</sup>So even if I boast somewhat freely about the authority the Lord gave us for building you up rather than tearing you down, I will not be ashamed of it. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_9"><sup>9</sup>I do not want to seem to be trying to frighten you with my letters. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_10"><sup>10</sup>For some say, “His letters are weighty and forceful, but in person he is unimpressive and his speaking amounts to nothing.” </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_11"><sup>11</sup>Such people should realize that what we are in our letters when we are absent, we will be in our actions when we are present. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>We do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some who commend themselves. When they measure themselves by themselves and compare themselves with themselves, they are not wise. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_13"><sup>13</sup>We, however, will not boast beyond proper limits, but will confine our boasting to the sphere of service God himself has assigned to us, a sphere that also includes you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_14"><sup>14</sup>We are not going too far in our boasting, as would be the case if we had not come to you, for we did get as far as you with the gospel of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_15"><sup>15</sup>Neither do we go beyond our limits by boasting of work done by others. Our hope is that, as your faith continues to grow, our sphere of activity among you will greatly expand, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_16"><sup>16</sup>so that we can preach the gospel in the regions beyond you. For we do not want to boast about work already done in someone else’s territory. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_17"><sup>17</sup>But, “Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 9:24">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2co_10_18"><sup>18</sup>For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. <br/></span>
