---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>Paul and the False Apostles </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>I hope you will put up with me in a little foolishness. Yes, please put up with me! </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_2"><sup>2</sup>I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy. I promised you to one husband, to Christ, so that I might present you as a pure virgin to him. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_3"><sup>3</sup>But I am afraid that just as Eve was deceived by the serpent’s cunning, your minds may somehow be led astray from your sincere and pure devotion to Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_4"><sup>4</sup>For if someone comes to you and preaches a Jesus other than the Jesus we preached, or if you receive a different spirit from the Spirit you received, or a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it easily enough. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_5"> <sup>5</sup>I do not think I am in the least inferior to those “super-apostles.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to the most eminent apostles">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_6"><sup>6</sup>I may indeed be untrained as a speaker, but I do have knowledge. We have made this perfectly clear to you in every way. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_7"><sup>7</sup>Was it a sin for me to lower myself in order to elevate you by preaching the gospel of God to you free of charge? </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_8"><sup>8</sup>I robbed other churches by receiving support from them so as to serve you. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_9"><sup>9</sup>And when I was with you and needed something, I was not a burden to anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied what I needed. I have kept myself from being a burden to you in any way, and will continue to do so. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_10"><sup>10</sup>As surely as the truth of Christ is in me, nobody in the regions of Achaia will stop this boasting of mine. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_11"><sup>11</sup>Why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do! <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_12"> <sup>12</sup>And I will keep on doing what I am doing in order to cut the ground from under those who want an opportunity to be considered equal with us in the things they boast about. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_13"><sup>13</sup>For such people are false apostles, deceitful workers, masquerading as apostles of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_14"><sup>14</sup>And no wonder, for Satan himself masquerades as an angel of light. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_15"><sup>15</sup>It is not surprising, then, if his servants also masquerade as servants of righteousness. Their end will be what their actions deserve. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul Boasts About His Sufferings </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_11_16"> <sup>16</sup>I repeat: Let no one take me for a fool. But if you do, then tolerate me just as you would a fool, so that I may do a little boasting. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_17"><sup>17</sup>In this self-confident boasting I am not talking as the Lord would, but as a fool. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_18"><sup>18</sup>Since many are boasting in the way the world does, I too will boast. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_19"><sup>19</sup>You gladly put up with fools since you are so wise! </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_20"><sup>20</sup>In fact, you even put up with anyone who enslaves you or exploits you or takes advantage of you or puts on airs or slaps you in the face. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_21"><sup>21</sup>To my shame I admit that we were too weak for that! <br/> Whatever anyone else dares to boast about—I am speaking as a fool—I also dare to boast about. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_22"><sup>22</sup>Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they Abraham’s descendants? So am I. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_23"><sup>23</sup>Are they servants of Christ? (I am out of my mind to talk like this.) I am more. I have worked much harder, been in prison more frequently, been flogged more severely, and been exposed to death again and again. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_24"><sup>24</sup>Five times I received from the Jews the forty lashes minus one. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_25"><sup>25</sup>Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was pelted with stones, three times I was shipwrecked, I spent a night and a day in the open sea, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_26"><sup>26</sup>I have been constantly on the move. I have been in danger from rivers, in danger from bandits, in danger from my fellow Jews, in danger from Gentiles; in danger in the city, in danger in the country, in danger at sea; and in danger from false believers. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_27"><sup>27</sup>I have labored and toiled and have often gone without sleep; I have known hunger and thirst and have often gone without food; I have been cold and naked. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_28"><sup>28</sup>Besides everything else, I face daily the pressure of my concern for all the churches. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_29"><sup>29</sup>Who is weak, and I do not feel weak? Who is led into sin, and I do not inwardly burn? <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_30"> <sup>30</sup>If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weakness. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_31"><sup>31</sup>The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, who is to be praised forever, knows that I am not lying. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_32"><sup>32</sup>In Damascus the governor under King Aretas had the city of the Damascenes guarded in order to arrest me. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_11_33"><sup>33</sup>But I was lowered in a basket from a window in the wall and slipped through his hands. <br/></span>
