---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: II Corinthians 
bookNumber: 47
audio: \Audio\NIV\2co\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Paul’s Vision and His Thorn </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>I must go on boasting. Although there is nothing to be gained, I will go on to visions and revelations from the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_2"><sup>2</sup>I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether it was in the body or out of the body I do not know—God knows. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_3"><sup>3</sup>And I know that this man—whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, but God knows— </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_4"><sup>4</sup>was caught up to paradise and heard inexpressible things, things that no one is permitted to tell. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_5"><sup>5</sup>I will boast about a man like that, but I will not boast about myself, except about my weaknesses. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_6"><sup>6</sup>Even if I should choose to boast, I would not be a fool, because I would be speaking the truth. But I refrain, so no one will think more of me than is warranted by what I do or say, </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_7"><sup>7</sup>or because of these surpassingly great revelations. Therefore, in order to keep me from becoming conceited, I was given a thorn in my flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_8"><sup>8</sup>Three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_9"><sup>9</sup>But he said to me, <font color="red">“My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.”</font> Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ’s power may rest on me. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_10"><sup>10</sup>That is why, for Christ’s sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Concern for the Corinthians </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2co_12_11"> <sup>11</sup>I have made a fool of myself, but you drove me to it. I ought to have been commended by you, for I am not in the least inferior to the “super-apostles,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the most eminent apostles">⚓</a> even though I am nothing. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_12"><sup>12</sup>I persevered in demonstrating among you the marks of a true apostle, including signs, wonders and miracles. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_13"><sup>13</sup>How were you inferior to the other churches, except that I was never a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong! <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_14"> <sup>14</sup>Now I am ready to visit you for the third time, and I will not be a burden to you, because what I want is not your possessions but you. After all, children should not have to save up for their parents, but parents for their children. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_15"><sup>15</sup>So I will very gladly spend for you everything I have and expend myself as well. If I love you more, will you love me less? </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_16"><sup>16</sup>Be that as it may, I have not been a burden to you. Yet, crafty fellow that I am, I caught you by trickery! </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_17"><sup>17</sup>Did I exploit you through any of the men I sent to you? </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_18"><sup>18</sup>I urged Titus to go to you and I sent our brother with him. Titus did not exploit you, did he? Did we not walk in the same footsteps by the same Spirit? <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_19"> <sup>19</sup>Have you been thinking all along that we have been defending ourselves to you? We have been speaking in the sight of God as those in Christ; and everything we do, dear friends, is for your strengthening. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_20"><sup>20</sup>For I am afraid that when I come I may not find you as I want you to be, and you may not find me as you want me to be. I fear that there may be discord, jealousy, fits of rage, selfish ambition, slander, gossip, arrogance and disorder. </span>
<span class="verse 2co_12_21"><sup>21</sup>I am afraid that when I come again my God will humble me before you, and I will be grieved over many who have sinned earlier and have not repented of the impurity, sexual sin and debauchery in which they have indulged. <br/></span>
