---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1></div>
<span class="verse sa_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord then said to Noah, “Go into the ark, you and your whole family, because I have found you righteous in this generation. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_2"><sup>2</sup>Take with you seven pairs of every kind of clean animal, a male and its mate, and one pair of every kind of unclean animal, a male and its mate, </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_3"><sup>3</sup>and also seven pairs of every kind of bird, male and female, to keep their various kinds alive throughout the earth. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_4"><sup>4</sup>Seven days from now I will send rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights, and I will wipe from the face of the earth every living creature I have made.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_7_5"> <sup>5</sup>And Noah did all that the Lord commanded him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_7_6"> <sup>6</sup>Noah was six hundred years old when the floodwaters came on the earth. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_7"><sup>7</sup>And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons’ wives entered the ark to escape the waters of the flood. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_8"><sup>8</sup>Pairs of clean and unclean animals, of birds and of all creatures that move along the ground, </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_9"><sup>9</sup>male and female, came to Noah and entered the ark, as God had commanded Noah. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_10"><sup>10</sup>And after the seven days the floodwaters came on the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_7_11"> <sup>11</sup>In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, on the seventeenth day of the second month—on that day all the springs of the great deep burst forth, and the floodgates of the heavens were opened. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_12"><sup>12</sup>And rain fell on the earth forty days and forty nights. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>On that very day Noah and his sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth, together with his wife and the wives of his three sons, entered the ark. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_14"><sup>14</sup>They had with them every wild animal according to its kind, all livestock according to their kinds, every creature that moves along the ground according to its kind and every bird according to its kind, everything with wings. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_15"><sup>15</sup>Pairs of all creatures that have the breath of life in them came to Noah and entered the ark. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_16"><sup>16</sup>The animals going in were male and female of every living thing, as God had commanded Noah. Then the Lord shut him in. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_7_17"> <sup>17</sup>For forty days the flood kept coming on the earth, and as the waters increased they lifted the ark high above the earth. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_18"><sup>18</sup>The waters rose and increased greatly on the earth, and the ark floated on the surface of the water. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_19"><sup>19</sup>They rose greatly on the earth, and all the high mountains under the entire heavens were covered. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_20"><sup>20</sup>The waters rose and covered the mountains to a depth of more than fifteen cubits.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 23 feet or about 6.8 meters">⚓</a><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or rose more than fifteen cubits, and the mountains were covered">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_7_21"><sup>21</sup>Every living thing that moved on land perished—birds, livestock, wild animals, all the creatures that swarm over the earth, and all mankind. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_22"><sup>22</sup>Everything on dry land that had the breath of life in its nostrils died. </span>
<span class="verse sa_7_23"><sup>23</sup>Every living thing on the face of the earth was wiped out; people and animals and the creatures that move along the ground and the birds were wiped from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those with him in the ark. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_7_24"> <sup>24</sup>The waters flooded the earth for a hundred and fifty days. <br/></span>
