---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1></div>
<span class="verse sa_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>But God remembered Noah and all the wild animals and the livestock that were with him in the ark, and he sent a wind over the earth, and the waters receded. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_2"><sup>2</sup>Now the springs of the deep and the floodgates of the heavens had been closed, and the rain had stopped falling from the sky. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_3"><sup>3</sup>The water receded steadily from the earth. At the end of the hundred and fifty days the water had gone down, </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_4"><sup>4</sup>and on the seventeenth day of the seventh month the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_5"><sup>5</sup>The waters continued to recede until the tenth month, and on the first day of the tenth month the tops of the mountains became visible. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_8_6"> <sup>6</sup>After forty days Noah opened a window he had made in the ark </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_7"><sup>7</sup>and sent out a raven, and it kept flying back and forth until the water had dried up from the earth. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_8"><sup>8</sup>Then he sent out a dove to see if the water had receded from the surface of the ground. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_9"><sup>9</sup>But the dove could find nowhere to perch because there was water over all the surface of the earth; so it returned to Noah in the ark. He reached out his hand and took the dove and brought it back to himself in the ark. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_10"><sup>10</sup>He waited seven more days and again sent out the dove from the ark. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_11"><sup>11</sup>When the dove returned to him in the evening, there in its beak was a freshly plucked olive leaf! Then Noah knew that the water had receded from the earth. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_12"><sup>12</sup>He waited seven more days and sent the dove out again, but this time it did not return to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_8_13"> <sup>13</sup>By the first day of the first month of Noah’s six hundred and first year, the water had dried up from the earth. Noah then removed the covering from the ark and saw that the surface of the ground was dry. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_14"><sup>14</sup>By the twenty-seventh day of the second month the earth was completely dry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_8_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then God said to Noah, </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_16"><sup>16</sup>“Come out of the ark, you and your wife and your sons and their wives. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_17"><sup>17</sup>Bring out every kind of living creature that is with you—the birds, the animals, and all the creatures that move along the ground—so they can multiply on the earth and be fruitful and increase in number on it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_8_18"> <sup>18</sup>So Noah came out, together with his sons and his wife and his sons’ wives. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_19"><sup>19</sup>All the animals and all the creatures that move along the ground and all the birds—everything that moves on land—came out of the ark, one kind after another. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_8_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then Noah built an altar to the Lord and, taking some of all the clean animals and clean birds, he sacrificed burnt offerings on it. </span>
<span class="verse sa_8_21"><sup>21</sup>The Lord smelled the pleasing aroma and said in his heart: “Never again will I curse the ground because of humans, even though<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or humans, for">⚓</a> every inclination of the human heart is evil from childhood. And never again will I destroy all living creatures, as I have done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_8_22">  <sup>22</sup>“As long as the earth endures, <br/>  seedtime and harvest, <br/>  cold and heat, <br/>  summer and winter, <br/>  day and night <br/>  will never cease.” <br/></span>
