---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>The Call of Abram </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord had said to Abram, “Go from your country, your people and your father’s household to the land I will show you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_12_2">  <sup>2</sup>“I will make you into a great nation, <br/>   and I will bless you; <br/>  I will make your name great, <br/>   and you will be a blessing.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or be seen as blessed">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_12_3">  <sup>3</sup>I will bless those who bless you, <br/>   and whoever curses you I will curse; <br/>  and all peoples on earth <br/>   will be blessed through you.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or earth / will use your name in blessings (see 48:20)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_12_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Abram went, as the Lord had told him; and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he set out from Harran. </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_5"><sup>5</sup>He took his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot, all the possessions they had accumulated and the people they had acquired in Harran, and they set out for the land of Canaan, and they arrived there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_12_6"> <sup>6</sup>Abram traveled through the land as far as the site of the great tree of Moreh at Shechem. At that time the Canaanites were in the land. </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_7"><sup>7</sup>The Lord appeared to Abram and said, “To your offspring<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or seed">⚓</a> I will give this land.” So he built an altar there to the Lord, who had appeared to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>From there he went on toward the hills east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. There he built an altar to the Lord and called on the name of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_12_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Abram set out and continued toward the Negev. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Abram in Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_12_10"> <sup>10</sup>Now there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to live there for a while because the famine was severe. </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_11"><sup>11</sup>As he was about to enter Egypt, he said to his wife Sarai, “I know what a beautiful woman you are. </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_12"><sup>12</sup>When the Egyptians see you, they will say, ‘This is his wife.’ Then they will kill me but will let you live. </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_13"><sup>13</sup>Say you are my sister, so that I will be treated well for your sake and my life will be spared because of you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_12_14"> <sup>14</sup>When Abram came to Egypt, the Egyptians saw that Sarai was a very beautiful woman. </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_15"><sup>15</sup>And when Pharaoh’s officials saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh, and she was taken into his palace. </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_16"><sup>16</sup>He treated Abram well for her sake, and Abram acquired sheep and cattle, male and female donkeys, male and female servants, and camels. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_12_17"> <sup>17</sup>But the Lord inflicted serious diseases on Pharaoh and his household because of Abram’s wife Sarai. </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_18"><sup>18</sup>So Pharaoh summoned Abram. “What have you done to me?” he said. “Why didn’t you tell me she was your wife? </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_19"><sup>19</sup>Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’ so that I took her to be my wife? Now then, here is your wife. Take her and go!” </span>
<span class="verse sa_12_20"><sup>20</sup>Then Pharaoh gave orders about Abram to his men, and they sent him on his way, with his wife and everything he had. <br/></span>
