---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Abram and Lot Separate </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>So Abram went up from Egypt to the Negev, with his wife and everything he had, and Lot went with him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_2"><sup>2</sup>Abram had become very wealthy in livestock and in silver and gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_13_3"> <sup>3</sup>From the Negev he went from place to place until he came to Bethel, to the place between Bethel and Ai where his tent had been earlier </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_4"><sup>4</sup>and where he had first built an altar. There Abram called on the name of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_13_5"> <sup>5</sup>Now Lot, who was moving about with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents. </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_6"><sup>6</sup>But the land could not support them while they stayed together, for their possessions were so great that they were not able to stay together. </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_7"><sup>7</sup>And quarreling arose between Abram’s herders and Lot’s. The Canaanites and Perizzites were also living in the land at that time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_13_8"> <sup>8</sup>So Abram said to Lot, “Let’s not have any quarreling between you and me, or between your herders and mine, for we are close relatives. </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_9"><sup>9</sup>Is not the whole land before you? Let’s part company. If you go to the left, I’ll go to the right; if you go to the right, I’ll go to the left.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_13_10"> <sup>10</sup>Lot looked around and saw that the whole plain of the Jordan toward Zoar was well watered, like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt. (This was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah.) </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_11"><sup>11</sup>So Lot chose for himself the whole plain of the Jordan and set out toward the east. The two men parted company: </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_12"><sup>12</sup>Abram lived in the land of Canaan, while Lot lived among the cities of the plain and pitched his tents near Sodom. </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_13"><sup>13</sup>Now the people of Sodom were wicked and were sinning greatly against the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_13_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Lord said to Abram after Lot had parted from him, “Look around from where you are, to the north and south, to the east and west. </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_15"><sup>15</sup>All the land that you see I will give to you and your offspring<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or seed ; also in verse 16">⚓</a> forever. </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_16"><sup>16</sup>I will make your offspring like the dust of the earth, so that if anyone could count the dust, then your offspring could be counted. </span>
<span class="verse sa_13_17"><sup>17</sup>Go, walk through the length and breadth of the land, for I am giving it to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_13_18"> <sup>18</sup>So Abram went to live near the great trees of Mamre at Hebron, where he pitched his tents. There he built an altar to the Lord. <br/></span>
