---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>Abram Rescues Lot </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>At the time when Amraphel was king of Shinar,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Babylonia; also in verse 9">⚓</a> Arioch king of Ellasar, Kedorlaomer king of Elam and Tidal king of Goyim, </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_2"><sup>2</sup>these kings went to war against Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, Shemeber king of Zeboyim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar). </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_3"><sup>3</sup>All these latter kings joined forces in the Valley of Siddim (that is, the Dead Sea Valley). </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_4"><sup>4</sup>For twelve years they had been subject to Kedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_14_5"> <sup>5</sup>In the fourteenth year, Kedorlaomer and the kings allied with him went out and defeated the Rephaites in Ashteroth Karnaim, the Zuzites in Ham, the Emites in Shaveh Kiriathaim </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_6"><sup>6</sup>and the Horites in the hill country of Seir, as far as El Paran near the desert. </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_7"><sup>7</sup>Then they turned back and went to En Mishpat (that is, Kadesh), and they conquered the whole territory of the Amalekites, as well as the Amorites who were living in Hazezon Tamar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_14_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboyim and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar) marched out and drew up their battle lines in the Valley of Siddim </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_9"><sup>9</sup>against Kedorlaomer king of Elam, Tidal king of Goyim, Amraphel king of Shinar and Arioch king of Ellasar—four kings against five. </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_10"><sup>10</sup>Now the Valley of Siddim was full of tar pits, and when the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, some of the men fell into them and the rest fled to the hills. </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_11"><sup>11</sup>The four kings seized all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their food; then they went away. </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_12"><sup>12</sup>They also carried off Abram’s nephew Lot and his possessions, since he was living in Sodom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>A man who had escaped came and reported this to Abram the Hebrew. Now Abram was living near the great trees of Mamre the Amorite, a brother<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or a relative ; or an ally">⚓</a> of Eshkol and Aner, all of whom were allied with Abram. </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_14"><sup>14</sup>When Abram heard that his relative had been taken captive, he called out the 318 trained men born in his household and went in pursuit as far as Dan. </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_15"><sup>15</sup>During the night Abram divided his men to attack them and he routed them, pursuing them as far as Hobah, north of Damascus. </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_16"><sup>16</sup>He recovered all the goods and brought back his relative Lot and his possessions, together with the women and the other people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_14_17"> <sup>17</sup>After Abram returned from defeating Kedorlaomer and the kings allied with him, the king of Sodom came out to meet him in the Valley of Shaveh (that is, the King’s Valley). <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_14_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine. He was priest of God Most High, </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_19"><sup>19</sup>and he blessed Abram, saying, <br/>  “Blessed be Abram by God Most High, <br/>   Creator of heaven and earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_14_20">  <sup>20</sup>And praise be to God Most High, <br/>   who delivered your enemies into your hand.” <br/>Then Abram gave him a tenth of everything. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_14_21"> <sup>21</sup>The king of Sodom said to Abram, “Give me the people and keep the goods for yourself.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_14_22"> <sup>22</sup>But Abram said to the king of Sodom, “With raised hand I have sworn an oath to the Lord, God Most High, Creator of heaven and earth, </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_23"><sup>23</sup>that I will accept nothing belonging to you, not even a thread or the strap of a sandal, so that you will never be able to say, ‘I made Abram rich.’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_14_24"><sup>24</sup>I will accept nothing but what my men have eaten and the share that belongs to the men who went with me—to Aner, Eshkol and Mamre. Let them have their share.” <br/></span>
