---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>The Three Visitors </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord appeared to Abraham near the great trees of Mamre while he was sitting at the entrance to his tent in the heat of the day. </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_2"><sup>2</sup>Abraham looked up and saw three men standing nearby. When he saw them, he hurried from the entrance of his tent to meet them and bowed low to the ground. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_3"> <sup>3</sup>He said, “If I have found favor in your eyes, my lord,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or eyes, Lord">⚓</a> do not pass your servant by. </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_4"><sup>4</sup>Let a little water be brought, and then you may all wash your feet and rest under this tree. </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_5"><sup>5</sup>Let me get you something to eat, so you can be refreshed and then go on your way—now that you have come to your servant.” <br/> “Very well,” they answered, “do as you say.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah. “Quick,” he said, “get three seahs<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 36 pounds or about 16 kilograms">⚓</a> of the finest flour and knead it and bake some bread.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then he ran to the herd and selected a choice, tender calf and gave it to a servant, who hurried to prepare it. </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_8"><sup>8</sup>He then brought some curds and milk and the calf that had been prepared, and set these before them. While they ate, he stood near them under a tree. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Where is your wife Sarah?” they asked him. <br/> “There, in the tent,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then one of them said, “I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife will have a son.” <br/> Now Sarah was listening at the entrance to the tent, which was behind him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_11"><sup>11</sup>Abraham and Sarah were already very old, and Sarah was past the age of childbearing. </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_12"><sup>12</sup>So Sarah laughed to herself as she thought, “After I am worn out and my lord is old, will I now have this pleasure?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then the Lord said to Abraham, “Why did Sarah laugh and say, ‘Will I really have a child, now that I am old?’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_14"><sup>14</sup>Is anything too hard for the Lord? I will return to you at the appointed time next year, and Sarah will have a son.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_15"> <sup>15</sup>Sarah was afraid, so she lied and said, “I did not laugh.” <br/> But he said, “Yes, you did laugh.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Abraham Pleads for Sodom </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_18_16"> <sup>16</sup>When the men got up to leave, they looked down toward Sodom, and Abraham walked along with them to see them on their way. </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_17"><sup>17</sup>Then the Lord said, “Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do? </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_18"><sup>18</sup>Abraham will surely become a great and powerful nation, and all nations on earth will be blessed through him.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or will use his name in blessings (see 48:20)">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_19"><sup>19</sup>For I have chosen him, so that he will direct his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord by doing what is right and just, so that the Lord will bring about for Abraham what he has promised him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then the Lord said, “The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is so great and their sin so grievous </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_21"><sup>21</sup>that I will go down and see if what they have done is as bad as the outcry that has reached me. If not, I will know.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_22"> <sup>22</sup>The men turned away and went toward Sodom, but Abraham remained standing before the Lord.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; an ancient Hebrew scribal tradition but the Lordremained standing before Abraham">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_23"><sup>23</sup>Then Abraham approached him and said: “Will you sweep away the righteous with the wicked? </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_24"><sup>24</sup>What if there are fifty righteous people in the city? Will you really sweep it away and not spare<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or forgive ; also in verse 26">⚓</a> the place for the sake of the fifty righteous people in it? </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_25"><sup>25</sup>Far be it from you to do such a thing—to kill the righteous with the wicked, treating the righteous and the wicked alike. Far be it from you! Will not the Judge of all the earth do right?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_26"> <sup>26</sup>The Lord said, “If I find fifty righteous people in the city of Sodom, I will spare the whole place for their sake.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_27"> <sup>27</sup>Then Abraham spoke up again: “Now that I have been so bold as to speak to the Lord, though I am nothing but dust and ashes, </span>
<span class="verse sa_18_28"><sup>28</sup>what if the number of the righteous is five less than fifty? Will you destroy the whole city for lack of five people?” <br/> “If I find forty-five there,” he said, “I will not destroy it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_29"> <sup>29</sup>Once again he spoke to him, “What if only forty are found there?” <br/> He said, “For the sake of forty, I will not do it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then he said, “May the Lord not be angry, but let me speak. What if only thirty can be found there?” <br/> He answered, “I will not do it if I find thirty there.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_31"> <sup>31</sup>Abraham said, “Now that I have been so bold as to speak to the Lord, what if only twenty can be found there?” <br/> He said, “For the sake of twenty, I will not destroy it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_32"> <sup>32</sup>Then he said, “May the Lord not be angry, but let me speak just once more. What if only ten can be found there?” <br/> He answered, “For the sake of ten, I will not destroy it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_18_33"> <sup>33</sup>When the Lord had finished speaking with Abraham, he left, and Abraham returned home. <br/></span>
