---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>Sodom and Gomorrah Destroyed </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>The two angels arrived at Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gateway of the city. When he saw them, he got up to meet them and bowed down with his face to the ground. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_2"><sup>2</sup>“My lords,” he said, “please turn aside to your servant’s house. You can wash your feet and spend the night and then go on your way early in the morning.” <br/> “No,” they answered, “we will spend the night in the square.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_3"> <sup>3</sup>But he insisted so strongly that they did go with him and entered his house. He prepared a meal for them, baking bread without yeast, and they ate. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_4"><sup>4</sup>Before they had gone to bed, all the men from every part of the city of Sodom—both young and old—surrounded the house. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_5"><sup>5</sup>They called to Lot, “Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us so that we can have sex with them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_6"> <sup>6</sup>Lot went outside to meet them and shut the door behind him </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_7"><sup>7</sup>and said, “No, my friends. Don’t do this wicked thing. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_8"><sup>8</sup>Look, I have two daughters who have never slept with a man. Let me bring them out to you, and you can do what you like with them. But don’t do anything to these men, for they have come under the protection of my roof.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Get out of our way,” they replied. “This fellow came here as a foreigner, and now he wants to play the judge! We’ll treat you worse than them.” They kept bringing pressure on Lot and moved forward to break down the door. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_10"> <sup>10</sup>But the men inside reached out and pulled Lot back into the house and shut the door. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_11"><sup>11</sup>Then they struck the men who were at the door of the house, young and old, with blindness so that they could not find the door. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_12"> <sup>12</sup>The two men said to Lot, “Do you have anyone else here—sons-in-law, sons or daughters, or anyone else in the city who belongs to you? Get them out of here, </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_13"><sup>13</sup>because we are going to destroy this place. The outcry to the Lord against its people is so great that he has sent us to destroy it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_14"> <sup>14</sup>So Lot went out and spoke to his sons-in-law, who were pledged to marry<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or were married to">⚓</a> his daughters. He said, “Hurry and get out of this place, because the Lord is about to destroy the city!” But his sons-in-law thought he was joking. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_15"> <sup>15</sup>With the coming of dawn, the angels urged Lot, saying, “Hurry! Take your wife and your two daughters who are here, or you will be swept away when the city is punished.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_16"> <sup>16</sup>When he hesitated, the men grasped his hand and the hands of his wife and of his two daughters and led them safely out of the city, for the Lord was merciful to them. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_17"><sup>17</sup>As soon as they had brought them out, one of them said, “Flee for your lives! Don’t look back, and don’t stop anywhere in the plain! Flee to the mountains or you will be swept away!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_18"> <sup>18</sup>But Lot said to them, “No, my lords,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or No, Lord ; or No, my lord">⚓</a> please! </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_19"><sup>19</sup>Your<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew is singular.">⚓</a> servant has found favor in your<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew is singular.">⚓</a> eyes, and you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew is singular.">⚓</a> have shown great kindness to me in sparing my life. But I can’t flee to the mountains; this disaster will overtake me, and I’ll die. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_20"><sup>20</sup>Look, here is a town near enough to run to, and it is small. Let me flee to it—it is very small, isn’t it? Then my life will be spared.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_21"> <sup>21</sup>He said to him, “Very well, I will grant this request too; I will not overthrow the town you speak of. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_22"><sup>22</sup>But flee there quickly, because I cannot do anything until you reach it.” (That is why the town was called Zoar.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means small.">⚓</a> ) <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_23"> <sup>23</sup>By the time Lot reached Zoar, the sun had risen over the land. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_24"><sup>24</sup>Then the Lord rained down burning sulfur on Sodom and Gomorrah—from the Lord out of the heavens. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_25"><sup>25</sup>Thus he overthrew those cities and the entire plain, destroying all those living in the cities—and also the vegetation in the land. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_26"><sup>26</sup>But Lot’s wife looked back, and she became a pillar of salt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_27"> <sup>27</sup>Early the next morning Abraham got up and returned to the place where he had stood before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_28"><sup>28</sup>He looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah, toward all the land of the plain, and he saw dense smoke rising from the land, like smoke from a furnace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_29"> <sup>29</sup>So when God destroyed the cities of the plain, he remembered Abraham, and he brought Lot out of the catastrophe that overthrew the cities where Lot had lived. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Lot and His Daughters </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_19_30"> <sup>30</sup>Lot and his two daughters left Zoar and settled in the mountains, for he was afraid to stay in Zoar. He and his two daughters lived in a cave. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_31"><sup>31</sup>One day the older daughter said to the younger, “Our father is old, and there is no man around here to give us children—as is the custom all over the earth. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_32"><sup>32</sup>Let’s get our father to drink wine and then sleep with him and preserve our family line through our father.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_33"> <sup>33</sup>That night they got their father to drink wine, and the older daughter went in and slept with him. He was not aware of it when she lay down or when she got up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_34"> <sup>34</sup>The next day the older daughter said to the younger, “Last night I slept with my father. Let’s get him to drink wine again tonight, and you go in and sleep with him so we can preserve our family line through our father.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_35"><sup>35</sup>So they got their father to drink wine that night also, and the younger daughter went in and slept with him. Again he was not aware of it when she lay down or when she got up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_19_36"> <sup>36</sup>So both of Lot’s daughters became pregnant by their father. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_37"><sup>37</sup>The older daughter had a son, and she named him Moab<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for from father.">⚓</a> ; he is the father of the Moabites of today. </span>
<span class="verse sa_19_38"><sup>38</sup>The younger daughter also had a son, and she named him Ben-Ammi<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means son of my father’s people.">⚓</a> ; he is the father of the Ammonites<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Bene-Ammon">⚓</a> of today. <br/></span>
