---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>Abraham Tested </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>Some time later God tested Abraham. He said to him, “Abraham!” <br/> “Here I am,” he replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then God said, “Take your son, your only son, whom you love—Isaac—and go to the region of Moriah. Sacrifice him there as a burnt offering on a mountain I will show you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_3"> <sup>3</sup>Early the next morning Abraham got up and loaded his donkey. He took with him two of his servants and his son Isaac. When he had cut enough wood for the burnt offering, he set out for the place God had told him about. </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_4"><sup>4</sup>On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place in the distance. </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_5"><sup>5</sup>He said to his servants, “Stay here with the donkey while I and the boy go over there. We will worship and then we will come back to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and placed it on his son Isaac, and he himself carried the fire and the knife. As the two of them went on together, </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_7"><sup>7</sup>Isaac spoke up and said to his father Abraham, “Father?” <br/> “Yes, my son?” Abraham replied. <br/> “The fire and wood are here,” Isaac said, “but where is the lamb for the burnt offering?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_8"> <sup>8</sup>Abraham answered, “God himself will provide the lamb for the burnt offering, my son.” And the two of them went on together. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_9"> <sup>9</sup>When they reached the place God had told him about, Abraham built an altar there and arranged the wood on it. He bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_10"><sup>10</sup>Then he reached out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_11"><sup>11</sup>But the angel of the Lord called out to him from heaven, “Abraham! Abraham!” <br/> “Here I am,” he replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_12"> <sup>12</sup>“Do not lay a hand on the boy,” he said. “Do not do anything to him. Now I know that you fear God, because you have not withheld from me your son, your only son.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_13"> <sup>13</sup>Abraham looked up and there in a thicket he saw a ram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many manuscripts of the Masoretic Text, Samaritan Pentateuch, Septuagint and Syriac; most manuscripts of the Masoretic Text a ram behind him">⚓</a> caught by its horns. He went over and took the ram and sacrificed it as a burnt offering instead of his son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_14"><sup>14</sup>So Abraham called that place The Lord Will Provide. And to this day it is said, “On the mountain of the Lord it will be provided.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_15"> <sup>15</sup>The angel of the Lord called to Abraham from heaven a second time </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_16"><sup>16</sup>and said, “I swear by myself, declares the Lord, that because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son, </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_17"><sup>17</sup>I will surely bless you and make your descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and as the sand on the seashore. Your descendants will take possession of the cities of their enemies, </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_18"><sup>18</sup>and through your offspring<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or seed">⚓</a> all nations on earth will be blessed,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and all nations on earth will use the name of your offspring in blessings (see 48:20)">⚓</a> because you have obeyed me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_22_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then Abraham returned to his servants, and they set off together for Beersheba. And Abraham stayed in Beersheba. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Nahor’s Sons </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_22_20"> <sup>20</sup>Some time later Abraham was told, “Milkah is also a mother; she has borne sons to your brother Nahor: </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_21"><sup>21</sup>Uz the firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel (the father of Aram), </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_22"><sup>22</sup>Kesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph and Bethuel.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_23"><sup>23</sup>Bethuel became the father of Rebekah. Milkah bore these eight sons to Abraham’s brother Nahor. </span>
<span class="verse sa_22_24"><sup>24</sup>His concubine, whose name was Reumah, also had sons: Tebah, Gaham, Tahash and Maakah. <br/></span>
