---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>Isaac and Rebekah </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>Abraham was now very old, and the Lord had blessed him in every way. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_2"><sup>2</sup>He said to the senior servant in his household, the one in charge of all that he had, “Put your hand under my thigh. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_3"><sup>3</sup>I want you to swear by the Lord, the God of heaven and the God of earth, that you will not get a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I am living, </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_4"><sup>4</sup>but will go to my country and my own relatives and get a wife for my son Isaac.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_5"> <sup>5</sup>The servant asked him, “What if the woman is unwilling to come back with me to this land? Shall I then take your son back to the country you came from?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_6"> <sup>6</sup>“Make sure that you do not take my son back there,” Abraham said. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_7"><sup>7</sup>“The Lord, the God of heaven, who brought me out of my father’s household and my native land and who spoke to me and promised me on oath, saying, ‘To your offspring<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or seed">⚓</a> I will give this land’—he will send his angel before you so that you can get a wife for my son from there. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_8"><sup>8</sup>If the woman is unwilling to come back with you, then you will be released from this oath of mine. Only do not take my son back there.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_9"><sup>9</sup>So the servant put his hand under the thigh of his master Abraham and swore an oath to him concerning this matter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then the servant left, taking with him ten of his master’s camels loaded with all kinds of good things from his master. He set out for Aram Naharaim<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Northwest Mesopotamia">⚓</a> and made his way to the town of Nahor. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_11"><sup>11</sup>He had the camels kneel down near the well outside the town; it was toward evening, the time the women go out to draw water. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then he prayed, “Lord, God of my master Abraham, make me successful today, and show kindness to my master Abraham. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_13"><sup>13</sup>See, I am standing beside this spring, and the daughters of the townspeople are coming out to draw water. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_14"><sup>14</sup>May it be that when I say to a young woman, ‘Please let down your jar that I may have a drink,’ and she says, ‘Drink, and I’ll water your camels too’—let her be the one you have chosen for your servant Isaac. By this I will know that you have shown kindness to my master.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_15"> <sup>15</sup>Before he had finished praying, Rebekah came out with her jar on her shoulder. She was the daughter of Bethuel son of Milkah, who was the wife of Abraham’s brother Nahor. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_16"><sup>16</sup>The woman was very beautiful, a virgin; no man had ever slept with her. She went down to the spring, filled her jar and came up again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_17"> <sup>17</sup>The servant hurried to meet her and said, “Please give me a little water from your jar.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_18"> <sup>18</sup>“Drink, my lord,” she said, and quickly lowered the jar to her hands and gave him a drink. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_19"> <sup>19</sup>After she had given him a drink, she said, “I’ll draw water for your camels too, until they have had enough to drink.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_20"><sup>20</sup>So she quickly emptied her jar into the trough, ran back to the well to draw more water, and drew enough for all his camels. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_21"><sup>21</sup>Without saying a word, the man watched her closely to learn whether or not the Lord had made his journey successful. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_22"> <sup>22</sup>When the camels had finished drinking, the man took out a gold nose ring weighing a beka<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1/5 ounce or about 5.7 grams">⚓</a> and two gold bracelets weighing ten shekels.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 4 ounces or about 115 grams">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_23"><sup>23</sup>Then he asked, “Whose daughter are you? Please tell me, is there room in your father’s house for us to spend the night?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_24"> <sup>24</sup>She answered him, “I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son that Milkah bore to Nahor.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_25"><sup>25</sup>And she added, “We have plenty of straw and fodder, as well as room for you to spend the night.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then the man bowed down and worshiped the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_27"><sup>27</sup>saying, “Praise be to the Lord, the God of my master Abraham, who has not abandoned his kindness and faithfulness to my master. As for me, the Lord has led me on the journey to the house of my master’s relatives.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_28"> <sup>28</sup>The young woman ran and told her mother’s household about these things. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_29"><sup>29</sup>Now Rebekah had a brother named Laban, and he hurried out to the man at the spring. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_30"><sup>30</sup>As soon as he had seen the nose ring, and the bracelets on his sister’s arms, and had heard Rebekah tell what the man said to her, he went out to the man and found him standing by the camels near the spring. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_31"><sup>31</sup>“Come, you who are blessed by the Lord,” he said. “Why are you standing out here? I have prepared the house and a place for the camels.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_32"> <sup>32</sup>So the man went to the house, and the camels were unloaded. Straw and fodder were brought for the camels, and water for him and his men to wash their feet. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_33"><sup>33</sup>Then food was set before him, but he said, “I will not eat until I have told you what I have to say.” <br/> “Then tell us,” Laban said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_34"> <sup>34</sup>So he said, “I am Abraham’s servant. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_35"><sup>35</sup>The Lord has blessed my master abundantly, and he has become wealthy. He has given him sheep and cattle, silver and gold, male and female servants, and camels and donkeys. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_36"><sup>36</sup>My master’s wife Sarah has borne him a son in her old age, and he has given him everything he owns. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_37"><sup>37</sup>And my master made me swear an oath, and said, ‘You must not get a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I live, </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_38"><sup>38</sup>but go to my father’s family and to my own clan, and get a wife for my son.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_39"> <sup>39</sup>“Then I asked my master, ‘What if the woman will not come back with me?’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_40"> <sup>40</sup>“He replied, ‘The Lord, before whom I have walked faithfully, will send his angel with you and make your journey a success, so that you can get a wife for my son from my own clan and from my father’s family. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_41"><sup>41</sup>You will be released from my oath if, when you go to my clan, they refuse to give her to you—then you will be released from my oath.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_42"> <sup>42</sup>“When I came to the spring today, I said, ‘Lord, God of my master Abraham, if you will, please grant success to the journey on which I have come. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_43"><sup>43</sup>See, I am standing beside this spring. If a young woman comes out to draw water and I say to her, “Please let me drink a little water from your jar,” </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_44"><sup>44</sup>and if she says to me, “Drink, and I’ll draw water for your camels too,” let her be the one the Lord has chosen for my master’s son.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_45"> <sup>45</sup>“Before I finished praying in my heart, Rebekah came out, with her jar on her shoulder. She went down to the spring and drew water, and I said to her, ‘Please give me a drink.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_46"> <sup>46</sup>“She quickly lowered her jar from her shoulder and said, ‘Drink, and I’ll water your camels too.’ So I drank, and she watered the camels also. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_47"> <sup>47</sup>“I asked her, ‘Whose daughter are you?’ <br/> “She said, ‘The daughter of Bethuel son of Nahor, whom Milkah bore to him.’ <br/> “Then I put the ring in her nose and the bracelets on her arms, </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_48"><sup>48</sup>and I bowed down and worshiped the Lord. I praised the Lord, the God of my master Abraham, who had led me on the right road to get the granddaughter of my master’s brother for his son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_49"><sup>49</sup>Now if you will show kindness and faithfulness to my master, tell me; and if not, tell me, so I may know which way to turn.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_50"> <sup>50</sup>Laban and Bethuel answered, “This is from the Lord; we can say nothing to you one way or the other. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_51"><sup>51</sup>Here is Rebekah; take her and go, and let her become the wife of your master’s son, as the Lord has directed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_52"> <sup>52</sup>When Abraham’s servant heard what they said, he bowed down to the ground before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_53"><sup>53</sup>Then the servant brought out gold and silver jewelry and articles of clothing and gave them to Rebekah; he also gave costly gifts to her brother and to her mother. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_54"><sup>54</sup>Then he and the men who were with him ate and drank and spent the night there. <br/> When they got up the next morning, he said, “Send me on my way to my master.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_55"> <sup>55</sup>But her brother and her mother replied, “Let the young woman remain with us ten days or so; then you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or she">⚓</a> may go.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_56"> <sup>56</sup>But he said to them, “Do not detain me, now that the Lord has granted success to my journey. Send me on my way so I may go to my master.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_57"> <sup>57</sup>Then they said, “Let’s call the young woman and ask her about it.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_58"><sup>58</sup>So they called Rebekah and asked her, “Will you go with this man?” <br/> “I will go,” she said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_59"> <sup>59</sup>So they sent their sister Rebekah on her way, along with her nurse and Abraham’s servant and his men. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_60"><sup>60</sup>And they blessed Rebekah and said to her, <br/>  “Our sister, may you increase <br/>   to thousands upon thousands; <br/>  may your offspring possess <br/>   the cities of their enemies.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_61"> <sup>61</sup>Then Rebekah and her attendants got ready and mounted the camels and went back with the man. So the servant took Rebekah and left. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_62"> <sup>62</sup>Now Isaac had come from Beer Lahai Roi, for he was living in the Negev. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_63"><sup>63</sup>He went out to the field one evening to meditate,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> and as he looked up, he saw camels approaching. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_64"><sup>64</sup>Rebekah also looked up and saw Isaac. She got down from her camel </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_65"><sup>65</sup>and asked the servant, “Who is that man in the field coming to meet us?” <br/> “He is my master,” the servant answered. So she took her veil and covered herself. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_24_66"> <sup>66</sup>Then the servant told Isaac all he had done. </span>
<span class="verse sa_24_67"><sup>67</sup>Isaac brought her into the tent of his mother Sarah, and he married Rebekah. So she became his wife, and he loved her; and Isaac was comforted after his mother’s death. <br/></span>
