---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1><h3>The Death of Abraham </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_25_1"> <sup>1</sup>Abraham had taken another wife, whose name was Keturah. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_2"><sup>2</sup>She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak and Shuah. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_3"><sup>3</sup>Jokshan was the father of Sheba and Dedan; the descendants of Dedan were the Ashurites, the Letushites and the Leummites. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_4"><sup>4</sup>The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanok, Abida and Eldaah. All these were descendants of Keturah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_5"> <sup>5</sup>Abraham left everything he owned to Isaac. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_6"><sup>6</sup>But while he was still living, he gave gifts to the sons of his concubines and sent them away from his son Isaac to the land of the east. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_7"> <sup>7</sup>Abraham lived a hundred and seventy-five years. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_8"><sup>8</sup>Then Abraham breathed his last and died at a good old age, an old man and full of years; and he was gathered to his people. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_9"><sup>9</sup>His sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah near Mamre, in the field of Ephron son of Zohar the Hittite, </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_10"><sup>10</sup>the field Abraham had bought from the Hittites.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the descendants of Heth">⚓</a> There Abraham was buried with his wife Sarah. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_11"><sup>11</sup>After Abraham’s death, God blessed his son Isaac, who then lived near Beer Lahai Roi. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ishmael’s Sons </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_25_12"> <sup>12</sup>This is the account of the family line of Abraham’s son Ishmael, whom Sarah’s slave, Hagar the Egyptian, bore to Abraham. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_13"> <sup>13</sup>These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, listed in the order of their birth: Nebaioth the firstborn of Ishmael, Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_14"><sup>14</sup>Mishma, Dumah, Massa, </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_15"><sup>15</sup>Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_16"><sup>16</sup>These were the sons of Ishmael, and these are the names of the twelve tribal rulers according to their settlements and camps. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_17"><sup>17</sup>Ishmael lived a hundred and thirty-seven years. He breathed his last and died, and he was gathered to his people. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_18"><sup>18</sup>His descendants settled in the area from Havilah to Shur, near the eastern border of Egypt, as you go toward Ashur. And they lived in hostility toward<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or lived to the east of">⚓</a> all the tribes related to them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jacob and Esau </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_25_19"> <sup>19</sup>This is the account of the family line of Abraham’s son Isaac. <br/> Abraham became the father of Isaac, </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_20"><sup>20</sup>and Isaac was forty years old when he married Rebekah daughter of Bethuel the Aramean from Paddan Aram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Northwest Mesopotamia">⚓</a> and sister of Laban the Aramean. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_21"> <sup>21</sup>Isaac prayed to the Lord on behalf of his wife, because she was childless. The Lord answered his prayer, and his wife Rebekah became pregnant. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_22"><sup>22</sup>The babies jostled each other within her, and she said, “Why is this happening to me?” So she went to inquire of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_23"> <sup>23</sup>The Lord said to her, <br/>  “Two nations are in your womb, <br/>   and two peoples from within you will be separated; <br/>  one people will be stronger than the other, <br/>   and the older will serve the younger.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_24"> <sup>24</sup>When the time came for her to give birth, there were twin boys in her womb. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_25"><sup>25</sup>The first to come out was red, and his whole body was like a hairy garment; so they named him Esau.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="may mean hairy .">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_26"><sup>26</sup>After this, his brother came out, with his hand grasping Esau’s heel; so he was named Jacob.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means he grasps the heel , a Hebrew idiom for he deceives .">⚓</a> Isaac was sixty years old when Rebekah gave birth to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_27"> <sup>27</sup>The boys grew up, and Esau became a skillful hunter, a man of the open country, while Jacob was content to stay at home among the tents. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_28"><sup>28</sup>Isaac, who had a taste for wild game, loved Esau, but Rebekah loved Jacob. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_29"> <sup>29</sup>Once when Jacob was cooking some stew, Esau came in from the open country, famished. </span>
<span class="verse sa_25_30"><sup>30</sup>He said to Jacob, “Quick, let me have some of that red stew! I’m famished!” (That is why he was also called Edom.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means red.">⚓</a> ) <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_31"> <sup>31</sup>Jacob replied, “First sell me your birthright.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_32"> <sup>32</sup>“Look, I am about to die,” Esau said. “What good is the birthright to me?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_33"> <sup>33</sup>But Jacob said, “Swear to me first.” So he swore an oath to him, selling his birthright to Jacob. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_25_34"> <sup>34</sup>Then Jacob gave Esau some bread and some lentil stew. He ate and drank, and then got up and left. <br/> So Esau despised his birthright. <br/></span>
