---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\26.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>26</h1><h3>Isaac and Abimelek </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_26_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now there was a famine in the land—besides the previous famine in Abraham’s time—and Isaac went to Abimelek king of the Philistines in Gerar. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_2"><sup>2</sup>The Lord appeared to Isaac and said, “Do not go down to Egypt; live in the land where I tell you to live. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_3"><sup>3</sup>Stay in this land for a while, and I will be with you and will bless you. For to you and your descendants I will give all these lands and will confirm the oath I swore to your father Abraham. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_4"><sup>4</sup>I will make your descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and will give them all these lands, and through your offspring<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or seed">⚓</a> all nations on earth will be blessed,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and all nations on earth will use the name of your offspring in blessings (see 48:20)">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_5"><sup>5</sup>because Abraham obeyed me and did everything I required of him, keeping my commands, my decrees and my instructions.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_6"><sup>6</sup>So Isaac stayed in Gerar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_7"> <sup>7</sup>When the men of that place asked him about his wife, he said, “She is my sister,” because he was afraid to say, “She is my wife.” He thought, “The men of this place might kill me on account of Rebekah, because she is beautiful.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_8"> <sup>8</sup>When Isaac had been there a long time, Abimelek king of the Philistines looked down from a window and saw Isaac caressing his wife Rebekah. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_9"><sup>9</sup>So Abimelek summoned Isaac and said, “She is really your wife! Why did you say, ‘She is my sister’?” <br/> Isaac answered him, “Because I thought I might lose my life on account of her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then Abimelek said, “What is this you have done to us? One of the men might well have slept with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_11"> <sup>11</sup>So Abimelek gave orders to all the people: “Anyone who harms this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_12"> <sup>12</sup>Isaac planted crops in that land and the same year reaped a hundredfold, because the Lord blessed him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_13"><sup>13</sup>The man became rich, and his wealth continued to grow until he became very wealthy. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_14"><sup>14</sup>He had so many flocks and herds and servants that the Philistines envied him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_15"><sup>15</sup>So all the wells that his father’s servants had dug in the time of his father Abraham, the Philistines stopped up, filling them with earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then Abimelek said to Isaac, “Move away from us; you have become too powerful for us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_17"> <sup>17</sup>So Isaac moved away from there and encamped in the Valley of Gerar, where he settled. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_18"><sup>18</sup>Isaac reopened the wells that had been dug in the time of his father Abraham, which the Philistines had stopped up after Abraham died, and he gave them the same names his father had given them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_19"> <sup>19</sup>Isaac’s servants dug in the valley and discovered a well of fresh water there. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_20"><sup>20</sup>But the herders of Gerar quarreled with those of Isaac and said, “The water is ours!” So he named the well Esek,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means dispute.">⚓</a> because they disputed with him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_21"><sup>21</sup>Then they dug another well, but they quarreled over that one also; so he named it Sitnah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means opposition.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_22"><sup>22</sup>He moved on from there and dug another well, and no one quarreled over it. He named it Rehoboth,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means room.">⚓</a> saying, “Now the Lord has given us room and we will flourish in the land.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_23"> <sup>23</sup>From there he went up to Beersheba. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_24"><sup>24</sup>That night the Lord appeared to him and said, “I am the God of your father Abraham. Do not be afraid, for I am with you; I will bless you and will increase the number of your descendants for the sake of my servant Abraham.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_25"> <sup>25</sup>Isaac built an altar there and called on the name of the Lord. There he pitched his tent, and there his servants dug a well. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_26"> <sup>26</sup>Meanwhile, Abimelek had come to him from Gerar, with Ahuzzath his personal adviser and Phicol the commander of his forces. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_27"><sup>27</sup>Isaac asked them, “Why have you come to me, since you were hostile to me and sent me away?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_28"> <sup>28</sup>They answered, “We saw clearly that the Lord was with you; so we said, ‘There ought to be a sworn agreement between us’—between us and you. Let us make a treaty with you </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_29"><sup>29</sup>that you will do us no harm, just as we did not harm you but always treated you well and sent you away peacefully. And now you are blessed by the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_30"> <sup>30</sup>Isaac then made a feast for them, and they ate and drank. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_31"><sup>31</sup>Early the next morning the men swore an oath to each other. Then Isaac sent them on their way, and they went away peacefully. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_32"> <sup>32</sup>That day Isaac’s servants came and told him about the well they had dug. They said, “We’ve found water!” </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_33"><sup>33</sup>He called it Shibah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="can mean oath or seven.">⚓</a> and to this day the name of the town has been Beersheba.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="can mean well of the oath and well of seven.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_26_34"> <sup>34</sup>When Esau was forty years old, he married Judith daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and also Basemath daughter of Elon the Hittite. </span>
<span class="verse sa_26_35"><sup>35</sup>They were a source of grief to Isaac and Rebekah. <br/></span>
