---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\28.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>28</h1></div>
<span class="verse sa_28_1"> <sup>1</sup>So Isaac called for Jacob and blessed him. Then he commanded him: “Do not marry a Canaanite woman. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_2"><sup>2</sup>Go at once to Paddan Aram,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Northwest Mesopotamia; also in verses 5, 6 and 7">⚓</a> to the house of your mother’s father Bethuel. Take a wife for yourself there, from among the daughters of Laban, your mother’s brother. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_3"><sup>3</sup>May God Almighty<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew El-Shaddai">⚓</a> bless you and make you fruitful and increase your numbers until you become a community of peoples. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_4"><sup>4</sup>May he give you and your descendants the blessing given to Abraham, so that you may take possession of the land where you now reside as a foreigner, the land God gave to Abraham.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_5"><sup>5</sup>Then Isaac sent Jacob on his way, and he went to Paddan Aram, to Laban son of Bethuel the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, who was the mother of Jacob and Esau. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_28_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now Esau learned that Isaac had blessed Jacob and had sent him to Paddan Aram to take a wife from there, and that when he blessed him he commanded him, “Do not marry a Canaanite woman,” </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_7"><sup>7</sup>and that Jacob had obeyed his father and mother and had gone to Paddan Aram. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_8"><sup>8</sup>Esau then realized how displeasing the Canaanite women were to his father Isaac; </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_9"><sup>9</sup>so he went to Ishmael and married Mahalath, the sister of Nebaioth and daughter of Ishmael son of Abraham, in addition to the wives he already had. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jacob’s Dream at Bethel </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_28_10"> <sup>10</sup>Jacob left Beersheba and set out for Harran. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_11"><sup>11</sup>When he reached a certain place, he stopped for the night because the sun had set. Taking one of the stones there, he put it under his head and lay down to sleep. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_12"><sup>12</sup>He had a dream in which he saw a stairway resting on the earth, with its top reaching to heaven, and the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_13"><sup>13</sup>There above it<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or There beside him">⚓</a> stood the Lord, and he said: “I am the Lord, the God of your father Abraham and the God of Isaac. I will give you and your descendants the land on which you are lying. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_14"><sup>14</sup>Your descendants will be like the dust of the earth, and you will spread out to the west and to the east, to the north and to the south. All peoples on earth will be blessed through you and your offspring.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or will use your name and the name of your offspring in blessings (see 48:20)">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_28_15"><sup>15</sup>I am with you and will watch over you wherever you go, and I will bring you back to this land. I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_28_16"> <sup>16</sup>When Jacob awoke from his sleep, he thought, “Surely the Lord is in this place, and I was not aware of it.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_17"><sup>17</sup>He was afraid and said, “How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God; this is the gate of heaven.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_28_18"> <sup>18</sup>Early the next morning Jacob took the stone he had placed under his head and set it up as a pillar and poured oil on top of it. </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_19"><sup>19</sup>He called that place Bethel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means house of God.">⚓</a> though the city used to be called Luz. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_28_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then Jacob made a vow, saying, “If God will be with me and will watch over me on this journey I am taking and will give me food to eat and clothes to wear </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_21"><sup>21</sup>so that I return safely to my father’s household, then the Lord<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Since God … father’s household, the Lord">⚓</a> will be my God </span>
<span class="verse sa_28_22"><sup>22</sup>and<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or household, and the Lordwill be my God, 22then">⚓</a> this stone that I have set up as a pillar will be God’s house, and of all that you give me I will give you a tenth.” <br/></span>
