---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\29.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>29</h1><h3>Jacob Arrives in Paddan Aram </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_29_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Jacob continued on his journey and came to the land of the eastern peoples. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_2"><sup>2</sup>There he saw a well in the open country, with three flocks of sheep lying near it because the flocks were watered from that well. The stone over the mouth of the well was large. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_3"><sup>3</sup>When all the flocks were gathered there, the shepherds would roll the stone away from the well’s mouth and water the sheep. Then they would return the stone to its place over the mouth of the well. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_4"> <sup>4</sup>Jacob asked the shepherds, “My brothers, where are you from?” <br/> “We’re from Harran,” they replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_5"> <sup>5</sup>He said to them, “Do you know Laban, Nahor’s grandson?” <br/> “Yes, we know him,” they answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then Jacob asked them, “Is he well?” <br/> “Yes, he is,” they said, “and here comes his daughter Rachel with the sheep.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Look,” he said, “the sun is still high; it is not time for the flocks to be gathered. Water the sheep and take them back to pasture.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_8"> <sup>8</sup>“We can’t,” they replied, “until all the flocks are gathered and the stone has been rolled away from the mouth of the well. Then we will water the sheep.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_9"> <sup>9</sup>While he was still talking with them, Rachel came with her father’s sheep, for she was a shepherd. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_10"><sup>10</sup>When Jacob saw Rachel daughter of his uncle Laban, and Laban’s sheep, he went over and rolled the stone away from the mouth of the well and watered his uncle’s sheep. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_11"><sup>11</sup>Then Jacob kissed Rachel and began to weep aloud. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_12"><sup>12</sup>He had told Rachel that he was a relative of her father and a son of Rebekah. So she ran and told her father. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_13"> <sup>13</sup>As soon as Laban heard the news about Jacob, his sister’s son, he hurried to meet him. He embraced him and kissed him and brought him to his home, and there Jacob told him all these things. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_14"><sup>14</sup>Then Laban said to him, “You are my own flesh and blood.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jacob Marries Leah and Rachel </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_29_14"> After Jacob had stayed with him for a whole month, </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_15"><sup>15</sup>Laban said to him, “Just because you are a relative of mine, should you work for me for nothing? Tell me what your wages should be.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_16"> <sup>16</sup>Now Laban had two daughters; the name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_17"><sup>17</sup>Leah had weak<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or delicate">⚓</a> eyes, but Rachel had a lovely figure and was beautiful. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_18"><sup>18</sup>Jacob was in love with Rachel and said, “I’ll work for you seven years in return for your younger daughter Rachel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_19"> <sup>19</sup>Laban said, “It’s better that I give her to you than to some other man. Stay here with me.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_20"><sup>20</sup>So Jacob served seven years to get Rachel, but they seemed like only a few days to him because of his love for her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then Jacob said to Laban, “Give me my wife. My time is completed, and I want to make love to her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_22"> <sup>22</sup>So Laban brought together all the people of the place and gave a feast. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_23"><sup>23</sup>But when evening came, he took his daughter Leah and brought her to Jacob, and Jacob made love to her. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_24"><sup>24</sup>And Laban gave his servant Zilpah to his daughter as her attendant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_25"> <sup>25</sup>When morning came, there was Leah! So Jacob said to Laban, “What is this you have done to me? I served you for Rachel, didn’t I? Why have you deceived me?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_26"> <sup>26</sup>Laban replied, “It is not our custom here to give the younger daughter in marriage before the older one. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_27"><sup>27</sup>Finish this daughter’s bridal week; then we will give you the younger one also, in return for another seven years of work.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_28"> <sup>28</sup>And Jacob did so. He finished the week with Leah, and then Laban gave him his daughter Rachel to be his wife. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_29"><sup>29</sup>Laban gave his servant Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as her attendant. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_30"><sup>30</sup>Jacob made love to Rachel also, and his love for Rachel was greater than his love for Leah. And he worked for Laban another seven years. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jacob’s Children </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_29_31"> <sup>31</sup>When the Lord saw that Leah was not loved, he enabled her to conceive, but Rachel remained childless. </span>
<span class="verse sa_29_32"><sup>32</sup>Leah became pregnant and gave birth to a son. She named him Reuben,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for he has seen my misery ; the name means see, a son .">⚓</a> for she said, “It is because the Lord has seen my misery. Surely my husband will love me now.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_33"> <sup>33</sup>She conceived again, and when she gave birth to a son she said, “Because the Lord heard that I am not loved, he gave me this one too.” So she named him Simeon.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="probably means one who hears.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_34"> <sup>34</sup>Again she conceived, and when she gave birth to a son she said, “Now at last my husband will become attached to me, because I have borne him three sons.” So he was named Levi.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like and may be derived from the Hebrew for attached.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_29_35"> <sup>35</sup>She conceived again, and when she gave birth to a son she said, “This time I will praise the Lord.” So she named him Judah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like and may be derived from the Hebrew for praise.">⚓</a> Then she stopped having children. <br/></span>
