---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\30.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1></div>
<span class="verse sa_30_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Rachel saw that she was not bearing Jacob any children, she became jealous of her sister. So she said to Jacob, “Give me children, or I’ll die!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_2"> <sup>2</sup>Jacob became angry with her and said, “Am I in the place of God, who has kept you from having children?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then she said, “Here is Bilhah, my servant. Sleep with her so that she can bear children for me and I too can build a family through her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_4"> <sup>4</sup>So she gave him her servant Bilhah as a wife. Jacob slept with her, </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_5"><sup>5</sup>and she became pregnant and bore him a son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_6"><sup>6</sup>Then Rachel said, “God has vindicated me; he has listened to my plea and given me a son.” Because of this she named him Dan.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="here means he has vindicated.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_7"> <sup>7</sup>Rachel’s servant Bilhah conceived again and bore Jacob a second son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_8"><sup>8</sup>Then Rachel said, “I have had a great struggle with my sister, and I have won.” So she named him Naphtali.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means my struggle.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_9"> <sup>9</sup>When Leah saw that she had stopped having children, she took her servant Zilpah and gave her to Jacob as a wife. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_10"><sup>10</sup>Leah’s servant Zilpah bore Jacob a son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_11"><sup>11</sup>Then Leah said, “What good fortune!”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or “A troop is coming!”">⚓</a> So she named him Gad.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="can mean good fortune or a troop.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_12"> <sup>12</sup>Leah’s servant Zilpah bore Jacob a second son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_13"><sup>13</sup>Then Leah said, “How happy I am! The women will call me happy.” So she named him Asher.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means happy.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_14"> <sup>14</sup>During wheat harvest, Reuben went out into the fields and found some mandrake plants, which he brought to his mother Leah. Rachel said to Leah, “Please give me some of your son’s mandrakes.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_15"> <sup>15</sup>But she said to her, “Wasn’t it enough that you took away my husband? Will you take my son’s mandrakes too?” <br/> “Very well,” Rachel said, “he can sleep with you tonight in return for your son’s mandrakes.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_16"> <sup>16</sup>So when Jacob came in from the fields that evening, Leah went out to meet him. “You must sleep with me,” she said. “I have hired you with my son’s mandrakes.” So he slept with her that night. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_17"> <sup>17</sup>God listened to Leah, and she became pregnant and bore Jacob a fifth son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_18"><sup>18</sup>Then Leah said, “God has rewarded me for giving my servant to my husband.” So she named him Issachar.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for reward.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_19"> <sup>19</sup>Leah conceived again and bore Jacob a sixth son. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_20"><sup>20</sup>Then Leah said, “God has presented me with a precious gift. This time my husband will treat me with honor, because I have borne him six sons.” So she named him Zebulun.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="probably means honor.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_21"> <sup>21</sup>Some time later she gave birth to a daughter and named her Dinah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then God remembered Rachel; he listened to her and enabled her to conceive. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_23"><sup>23</sup>She became pregnant and gave birth to a son and said, “God has taken away my disgrace.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_24"><sup>24</sup>She named him Joseph,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means may he add.">⚓</a> and said, “May the Lord add to me another son.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jacob’s Flocks Increase </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_30_25"> <sup>25</sup>After Rachel gave birth to Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, “Send me on my way so I can go back to my own homeland. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_26"><sup>26</sup>Give me my wives and children, for whom I have served you, and I will be on my way. You know how much work I’ve done for you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_27"> <sup>27</sup>But Laban said to him, “If I have found favor in your eyes, please stay. I have learned by divination that the Lord has blessed me because of you.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_28"><sup>28</sup>He added, “Name your wages, and I will pay them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_29"> <sup>29</sup>Jacob said to him, “You know how I have worked for you and how your livestock has fared under my care. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_30"><sup>30</sup>The little you had before I came has increased greatly, and the Lord has blessed you wherever I have been. But now, when may I do something for my own household?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_31"> <sup>31</sup>“What shall I give you?” he asked. <br/> “Don’t give me anything,” Jacob replied. “But if you will do this one thing for me, I will go on tending your flocks and watching over them: </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_32"><sup>32</sup>Let me go through all your flocks today and remove from them every speckled or spotted sheep, every dark-colored lamb and every spotted or speckled goat. They will be my wages. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_33"><sup>33</sup>And my honesty will testify for me in the future, whenever you check on the wages you have paid me. Any goat in my possession that is not speckled or spotted, or any lamb that is not dark-colored, will be considered stolen.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_34"> <sup>34</sup>“Agreed,” said Laban. “Let it be as you have said.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_35"><sup>35</sup>That same day he removed all the male goats that were streaked or spotted, and all the speckled or spotted female goats (all that had white on them) and all the dark-colored lambs, and he placed them in the care of his sons. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_36"><sup>36</sup>Then he put a three-day journey between himself and Jacob, while Jacob continued to tend the rest of Laban’s flocks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_30_37"> <sup>37</sup>Jacob, however, took fresh-cut branches from poplar, almond and plane trees and made white stripes on them by peeling the bark and exposing the white inner wood of the branches. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_38"><sup>38</sup>Then he placed the peeled branches in all the watering troughs, so that they would be directly in front of the flocks when they came to drink. When the flocks were in heat and came to drink, </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_39"><sup>39</sup>they mated in front of the branches. And they bore young that were streaked or speckled or spotted. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_40"><sup>40</sup>Jacob set apart the young of the flock by themselves, but made the rest face the streaked and dark-colored animals that belonged to Laban. Thus he made separate flocks for himself and did not put them with Laban’s animals. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_41"><sup>41</sup>Whenever the stronger females were in heat, Jacob would place the branches in the troughs in front of the animals so they would mate near the branches, </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_42"><sup>42</sup>but if the animals were weak, he would not place them there. So the weak animals went to Laban and the strong ones to Jacob. </span>
<span class="verse sa_30_43"><sup>43</sup>In this way the man grew exceedingly prosperous and came to own large flocks, and female and male servants, and camels and donkeys. <br/></span>
