---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\32.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>32</h1><h3>Jacob Prepares to Meet Esau </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_32_1"> <sup>1</sup>Jacob also went on his way, and the angels of God met him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_2"><sup>2</sup>When Jacob saw them, he said, “This is the camp of God!” So he named that place Mahanaim.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means two camps.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_3"> <sup>3</sup>Jacob sent messengers ahead of him to his brother Esau in the land of Seir, the country of Edom. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_4"><sup>4</sup>He instructed them: “This is what you are to say to my lord Esau: ‘Your servant Jacob says, I have been staying with Laban and have remained there till now. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_5"><sup>5</sup>I have cattle and donkeys, sheep and goats, male and female servants. Now I am sending this message to my lord, that I may find favor in your eyes.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_6"> <sup>6</sup>When the messengers returned to Jacob, they said, “We went to your brother Esau, and now he is coming to meet you, and four hundred men are with him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_7"> <sup>7</sup>In great fear and distress Jacob divided the people who were with him into two groups,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or camps">⚓</a> and the flocks and herds and camels as well. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_8"><sup>8</sup>He thought, “If Esau comes and attacks one group,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or camp">⚓</a> the group<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or camp">⚓</a> that is left may escape.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Jacob prayed, “O God of my father Abraham, God of my father Isaac, Lord, you who said to me, ‘Go back to your country and your relatives, and I will make you prosper,’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_10"><sup>10</sup>I am unworthy of all the kindness and faithfulness you have shown your servant. I had only my staff when I crossed this Jordan, but now I have become two camps. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_11"><sup>11</sup>Save me, I pray, from the hand of my brother Esau, for I am afraid he will come and attack me, and also the mothers with their children. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_12"><sup>12</sup>But you have said, ‘I will surely make you prosper and will make your descendants like the sand of the sea, which cannot be counted.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_13"> <sup>13</sup>He spent the night there, and from what he had with him he selected a gift for his brother Esau: </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_14"><sup>14</sup>two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams, </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_15"><sup>15</sup>thirty female camels with their young, forty cows and ten bulls, and twenty female donkeys and ten male donkeys. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_16"><sup>16</sup>He put them in the care of his servants, each herd by itself, and said to his servants, “Go ahead of me, and keep some space between the herds.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_17"> <sup>17</sup>He instructed the one in the lead: “When my brother Esau meets you and asks, ‘Who do you belong to, and where are you going, and who owns all these animals in front of you?’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_18"><sup>18</sup>then you are to say, ‘They belong to your servant Jacob. They are a gift sent to my lord Esau, and he is coming behind us.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_19"> <sup>19</sup>He also instructed the second, the third and all the others who followed the herds: “You are to say the same thing to Esau when you meet him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_20"><sup>20</sup>And be sure to say, ‘Your servant Jacob is coming behind us.’ ” For he thought, “I will pacify him with these gifts I am sending on ahead; later, when I see him, perhaps he will receive me.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_21"><sup>21</sup>So Jacob’s gifts went on ahead of him, but he himself spent the night in the camp. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jacob Wrestles With God </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_32_22"> <sup>22</sup>That night Jacob got up and took his two wives, his two female servants and his eleven sons and crossed the ford of the Jabbok. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_23"><sup>23</sup>After he had sent them across the stream, he sent over all his possessions. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_24"><sup>24</sup>So Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him till daybreak. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_25"><sup>25</sup>When the man saw that he could not overpower him, he touched the socket of Jacob’s hip so that his hip was wrenched as he wrestled with the man. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_26"><sup>26</sup>Then the man said, “Let me go, for it is daybreak.” <br/> But Jacob replied, “I will not let you go unless you bless me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_27"> <sup>27</sup>The man asked him, “What is your name?” <br/> “Jacob,” he answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then the man said, “Your name will no longer be Jacob, but Israel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="probably means he struggles with God.">⚓</a> because you have struggled with God and with humans and have overcome.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_29"> <sup>29</sup>Jacob said, “Please tell me your name.” <br/> But he replied, “Why do you ask my name?” Then he blessed him there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_30"> <sup>30</sup>So Jacob called the place Peniel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means face of God.">⚓</a> saying, “It is because I saw God face to face, and yet my life was spared.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_32_31"> <sup>31</sup>The sun rose above him as he passed Peniel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Penuel , a variant of Peniel">⚓</a> and he was limping because of his hip. </span>
<span class="verse sa_32_32"><sup>32</sup>Therefore to this day the Israelites do not eat the tendon attached to the socket of the hip, because the socket of Jacob’s hip was touched near the tendon. <br/></span>
