---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\33.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>33</h1><h3>Jacob Meets Esau </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_33_1"> <sup>1</sup>Jacob looked up and there was Esau, coming with his four hundred men; so he divided the children among Leah, Rachel and the two female servants. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_2"><sup>2</sup>He put the female servants and their children in front, Leah and her children next, and Rachel and Joseph in the rear. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_3"><sup>3</sup>He himself went on ahead and bowed down to the ground seven times as he approached his brother. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_4"> <sup>4</sup>But Esau ran to meet Jacob and embraced him; he threw his arms around his neck and kissed him. And they wept. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_5"><sup>5</sup>Then Esau looked up and saw the women and children. “Who are these with you?” he asked. <br/> Jacob answered, “They are the children God has graciously given your servant.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then the female servants and their children approached and bowed down. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_7"><sup>7</sup>Next, Leah and her children came and bowed down. Last of all came Joseph and Rachel, and they too bowed down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_8"> <sup>8</sup>Esau asked, “What’s the meaning of all these flocks and herds I met?” <br/> “To find favor in your eyes, my lord,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_9"> <sup>9</sup>But Esau said, “I already have plenty, my brother. Keep what you have for yourself.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_10"> <sup>10</sup>“No, please!” said Jacob. “If I have found favor in your eyes, accept this gift from me. For to see your face is like seeing the face of God, now that you have received me favorably. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_11"><sup>11</sup>Please accept the present that was brought to you, for God has been gracious to me and I have all I need.” And because Jacob insisted, Esau accepted it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then Esau said, “Let us be on our way; I’ll accompany you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_13"> <sup>13</sup>But Jacob said to him, “My lord knows that the children are tender and that I must care for the ewes and cows that are nursing their young. If they are driven hard just one day, all the animals will die. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_14"><sup>14</sup>So let my lord go on ahead of his servant, while I move along slowly at the pace of the flocks and herds before me and the pace of the children, until I come to my lord in Seir.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_15"> <sup>15</sup>Esau said, “Then let me leave some of my men with you.” <br/> “But why do that?” Jacob asked. “Just let me find favor in the eyes of my lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_16"> <sup>16</sup>So that day Esau started on his way back to Seir. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_17"><sup>17</sup>Jacob, however, went to Sukkoth, where he built a place for himself and made shelters for his livestock. That is why the place is called Sukkoth.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means shelters.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_33_18"> <sup>18</sup>After Jacob came from Paddan Aram,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Northwest Mesopotamia">⚓</a> he arrived safely at the city of Shechem in Canaan and camped within sight of the city. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_19"><sup>19</sup>For a hundred pieces of silver,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew hundred kesitahs ; a kesitah was a unit of money of unknown weight and value.">⚓</a> he bought from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, the plot of ground where he pitched his tent. </span>
<span class="verse sa_33_20"><sup>20</sup>There he set up an altar and called it El Elohe Israel.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="can mean El is the God of Israel or mighty is the God of Israel.">⚓</a><br/></span>
