---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\34.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>34</h1><h3>Dinah and the Shechemites </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_34_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Dinah, the daughter Leah had borne to Jacob, went out to visit the women of the land. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_2"><sup>2</sup>When Shechem son of Hamor the Hivite, the ruler of that area, saw her, he took her and raped her. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_3"><sup>3</sup>His heart was drawn to Dinah daughter of Jacob; he loved the young woman and spoke tenderly to her. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_4"><sup>4</sup>And Shechem said to his father Hamor, “Get me this girl as my wife.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_5"> <sup>5</sup>When Jacob heard that his daughter Dinah had been defiled, his sons were in the fields with his livestock; so he did nothing about it until they came home. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then Shechem’s father Hamor went out to talk with Jacob. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_7"><sup>7</sup>Meanwhile, Jacob’s sons had come in from the fields as soon as they heard what had happened. They were shocked and furious, because Shechem had done an outrageous thing in<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or against">⚓</a> Israel by sleeping with Jacob’s daughter—a thing that should not be done. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_8"> <sup>8</sup>But Hamor said to them, “My son Shechem has his heart set on your daughter. Please give her to him as his wife. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_9"><sup>9</sup>Intermarry with us; give us your daughters and take our daughters for yourselves. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_10"><sup>10</sup>You can settle among us; the land is open to you. Live in it, trade<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or move about freely ; also in verse 21">⚓</a> in it, and acquire property in it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then Shechem said to Dinah’s father and brothers, “Let me find favor in your eyes, and I will give you whatever you ask. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_12"><sup>12</sup>Make the price for the bride and the gift I am to bring as great as you like, and I’ll pay whatever you ask me. Only give me the young woman as my wife.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_13"> <sup>13</sup>Because their sister Dinah had been defiled, Jacob’s sons replied deceitfully as they spoke to Shechem and his father Hamor. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_14"><sup>14</sup>They said to them, “We can’t do such a thing; we can’t give our sister to a man who is not circumcised. That would be a disgrace to us. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_15"><sup>15</sup>We will enter into an agreement with you on one condition only: that you become like us by circumcising all your males. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_16"><sup>16</sup>Then we will give you our daughters and take your daughters for ourselves. We’ll settle among you and become one people with you. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_17"><sup>17</sup>But if you will not agree to be circumcised, we’ll take our sister and go.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_18"> <sup>18</sup>Their proposal seemed good to Hamor and his son Shechem. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_19"><sup>19</sup>The young man, who was the most honored of all his father’s family, lost no time in doing what they said, because he was delighted with Jacob’s daughter. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_20"><sup>20</sup>So Hamor and his son Shechem went to the gate of their city to speak to the men of their city. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_21"><sup>21</sup>“These men are friendly toward us,” they said. “Let them live in our land and trade in it; the land has plenty of room for them. We can marry their daughters and they can marry ours. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_22"><sup>22</sup>But the men will agree to live with us as one people only on the condition that our males be circumcised, as they themselves are. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_23"><sup>23</sup>Won’t their livestock, their property and all their other animals become ours? So let us agree to their terms, and they will settle among us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_24"> <sup>24</sup>All the men who went out of the city gate agreed with Hamor and his son Shechem, and every male in the city was circumcised. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_25"> <sup>25</sup>Three days later, while all of them were still in pain, two of Jacob’s sons, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brothers, took their swords and attacked the unsuspecting city, killing every male. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_26"><sup>26</sup>They put Hamor and his son Shechem to the sword and took Dinah from Shechem’s house and left. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_27"><sup>27</sup>The sons of Jacob came upon the dead bodies and looted the city where<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or because">⚓</a> their sister had been defiled. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_28"><sup>28</sup>They seized their flocks and herds and donkeys and everything else of theirs in the city and out in the fields. </span>
<span class="verse sa_34_29"><sup>29</sup>They carried off all their wealth and all their women and children, taking as plunder everything in the houses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, “You have brought trouble on me by making me obnoxious to the Canaanites and Perizzites, the people living in this land. We are few in number, and if they join forces against me and attack me, I and my household will be destroyed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_34_31"> <sup>31</sup>But they replied, “Should he have treated our sister like a prostitute?” <br/></span>
