---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\38.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>38</h1><h3>Judah and Tamar </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_38_1"> <sup>1</sup>At that time, Judah left his brothers and went down to stay with a man of Adullam named Hirah. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_2"><sup>2</sup>There Judah met the daughter of a Canaanite man named Shua. He married her and made love to her; </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_3"><sup>3</sup>she became pregnant and gave birth to a son, who was named Er. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_4"><sup>4</sup>She conceived again and gave birth to a son and named him Onan. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_5"><sup>5</sup>She gave birth to still another son and named him Shelah. It was at Kezib that she gave birth to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_6"> <sup>6</sup>Judah got a wife for Er, his firstborn, and her name was Tamar. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_7"><sup>7</sup>But Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the Lord’s sight; so the Lord put him to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Judah said to Onan, “Sleep with your brother’s wife and fulfill your duty to her as a brother-in-law to raise up offspring for your brother.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_9"><sup>9</sup>But Onan knew that the child would not be his; so whenever he slept with his brother’s wife, he spilled his semen on the ground to keep from providing offspring for his brother. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_10"><sup>10</sup>What he did was wicked in the Lord’s sight; so the Lord put him to death also. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_11"> <sup>11</sup>Judah then said to his daughter-in-law Tamar, “Live as a widow in your father’s household until my son Shelah grows up.” For he thought, “He may die too, just like his brothers.” So Tamar went to live in her father’s household. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_12"> <sup>12</sup>After a long time Judah’s wife, the daughter of Shua, died. When Judah had recovered from his grief, he went up to Timnah, to the men who were shearing his sheep, and his friend Hirah the Adullamite went with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_13"> <sup>13</sup>When Tamar was told, “Your father-in-law is on his way to Timnah to shear his sheep,” </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_14"><sup>14</sup>she took off her widow’s clothes, covered herself with a veil to disguise herself, and then sat down at the entrance to Enaim, which is on the road to Timnah. For she saw that, though Shelah had now grown up, she had not been given to him as his wife. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_15"> <sup>15</sup>When Judah saw her, he thought she was a prostitute, for she had covered her face. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_16"><sup>16</sup>Not realizing that she was his daughter-in-law, he went over to her by the roadside and said, “Come now, let me sleep with you.” <br/> “And what will you give me to sleep with you?” she asked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_17"> <sup>17</sup>“I’ll send you a young goat from my flock,” he said. <br/> “Will you give me something as a pledge until you send it?” she asked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_18"> <sup>18</sup>He said, “What pledge should I give you?” <br/> “Your seal and its cord, and the staff in your hand,” she answered. So he gave them to her and slept with her, and she became pregnant by him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_19"><sup>19</sup>After she left, she took off her veil and put on her widow’s clothes again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_20"> <sup>20</sup>Meanwhile Judah sent the young goat by his friend the Adullamite in order to get his pledge back from the woman, but he did not find her. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_21"><sup>21</sup>He asked the men who lived there, “Where is the shrine prostitute who was beside the road at Enaim?” <br/> “There hasn’t been any shrine prostitute here,” they said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_22"> <sup>22</sup>So he went back to Judah and said, “I didn’t find her. Besides, the men who lived there said, ‘There hasn’t been any shrine prostitute here.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_23"> <sup>23</sup>Then Judah said, “Let her keep what she has, or we will become a laughingstock. After all, I did send her this young goat, but you didn’t find her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_24"> <sup>24</sup>About three months later Judah was told, “Your daughter-in-law Tamar is guilty of prostitution, and as a result she is now pregnant.” <br/> Judah said, “Bring her out and have her burned to death!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_25"> <sup>25</sup>As she was being brought out, she sent a message to her father-in-law. “I am pregnant by the man who owns these,” she said. And she added, “See if you recognize whose seal and cord and staff these are.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_26"> <sup>26</sup>Judah recognized them and said, “She is more righteous than I, since I wouldn’t give her to my son Shelah.” And he did not sleep with her again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_27"> <sup>27</sup>When the time came for her to give birth, there were twin boys in her womb. </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_28"><sup>28</sup>As she was giving birth, one of them put out his hand; so the midwife took a scarlet thread and tied it on his wrist and said, “This one came out first.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_38_29"><sup>29</sup>But when he drew back his hand, his brother came out, and she said, “So this is how you have broken out!” And he was named Perez.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means breaking out.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_38_30"><sup>30</sup>Then his brother, who had the scarlet thread on his wrist, came out. And he was named Zerah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="can mean scarlet or brightness.">⚓</a><br/></span>
