---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\40.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>40</h1><h3>The Cupbearer and the Baker </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_40_1"> <sup>1</sup>Some time later, the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt offended their master, the king of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_2"><sup>2</sup>Pharaoh was angry with his two officials, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker, </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_3"><sup>3</sup>and put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, in the same prison where Joseph was confined. </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_4"><sup>4</sup>The captain of the guard assigned them to Joseph, and he attended them. <br/> After they had been in custody for some time, </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_5"><sup>5</sup>each of the two men—the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were being held in prison—had a dream the same night, and each dream had a meaning of its own. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_6"> <sup>6</sup>When Joseph came to them the next morning, he saw that they were dejected. </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_7"><sup>7</sup>So he asked Pharaoh’s officials who were in custody with him in his master’s house, “Why do you look so sad today?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_8"> <sup>8</sup>“We both had dreams,” they answered, “but there is no one to interpret them.” <br/> Then Joseph said to them, “Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me your dreams.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_9"> <sup>9</sup>So the chief cupbearer told Joseph his dream. He said to him, “In my dream I saw a vine in front of me, </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_10"><sup>10</sup>and on the vine were three branches. As soon as it budded, it blossomed, and its clusters ripened into grapes. </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_11"><sup>11</sup>Pharaoh’s cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes, squeezed them into Pharaoh’s cup and put the cup in his hand.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_12"> <sup>12</sup>“This is what it means,” Joseph said to him. “The three branches are three days. </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_13"><sup>13</sup>Within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your position, and you will put Pharaoh’s cup in his hand, just as you used to do when you were his cupbearer. </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_14"><sup>14</sup>But when all goes well with you, remember me and show me kindness; mention me to Pharaoh and get me out of this prison. </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_15"><sup>15</sup>I was forcibly carried off from the land of the Hebrews, and even here I have done nothing to deserve being put in a dungeon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_16"> <sup>16</sup>When the chief baker saw that Joseph had given a favorable interpretation, he said to Joseph, “I too had a dream: On my head were three baskets of bread.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or three wicker baskets">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_17"><sup>17</sup>In the top basket were all kinds of baked goods for Pharaoh, but the birds were eating them out of the basket on my head.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_18"> <sup>18</sup>“This is what it means,” Joseph said. “The three baskets are three days. </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_19"><sup>19</sup>Within three days Pharaoh will lift off your head and impale your body on a pole. And the birds will eat away your flesh.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_20"> <sup>20</sup>Now the third day was Pharaoh’s birthday, and he gave a feast for all his officials. He lifted up the heads of the chief cupbearer and the chief baker in the presence of his officials: </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_21"><sup>21</sup>He restored the chief cupbearer to his position, so that he once again put the cup into Pharaoh’s hand— </span>
<span class="verse sa_40_22"><sup>22</sup>but he impaled the chief baker, just as Joseph had said to them in his interpretation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_40_23"> <sup>23</sup>The chief cupbearer, however, did not remember Joseph; he forgot him. <br/></span>
