---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\41.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>41</h1><h3>Pharaoh’s Dreams </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_41_1"> <sup>1</sup>When two full years had passed, Pharaoh had a dream: He was standing by the Nile, </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_2"><sup>2</sup>when out of the river there came up seven cows, sleek and fat, and they grazed among the reeds. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_3"><sup>3</sup>After them, seven other cows, ugly and gaunt, came up out of the Nile and stood beside those on the riverbank. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_4"><sup>4</sup>And the cows that were ugly and gaunt ate up the seven sleek, fat cows. Then Pharaoh woke up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_5"> <sup>5</sup>He fell asleep again and had a second dream: Seven heads of grain, healthy and good, were growing on a single stalk. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_6"><sup>6</sup>After them, seven other heads of grain sprouted—thin and scorched by the east wind. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_7"><sup>7</sup>The thin heads of grain swallowed up the seven healthy, full heads. Then Pharaoh woke up; it had been a dream. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_8"> <sup>8</sup>In the morning his mind was troubled, so he sent for all the magicians and wise men of Egypt. Pharaoh told them his dreams, but no one could interpret them for him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then the chief cupbearer said to Pharaoh, “Today I am reminded of my shortcomings. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_10"><sup>10</sup>Pharaoh was once angry with his servants, and he imprisoned me and the chief baker in the house of the captain of the guard. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_11"><sup>11</sup>Each of us had a dream the same night, and each dream had a meaning of its own. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_12"><sup>12</sup>Now a young Hebrew was there with us, a servant of the captain of the guard. We told him our dreams, and he interpreted them for us, giving each man the interpretation of his dream. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_13"><sup>13</sup>And things turned out exactly as he interpreted them to us: I was restored to my position, and the other man was impaled.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_14"> <sup>14</sup>So Pharaoh sent for Joseph, and he was quickly brought from the dungeon. When he had shaved and changed his clothes, he came before Pharaoh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_15"> <sup>15</sup>Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I had a dream, and no one can interpret it. But I have heard it said of you that when you hear a dream you can interpret it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_16"> <sup>16</sup>“I cannot do it,” Joseph replied to Pharaoh, “but God will give Pharaoh the answer he desires.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “In my dream I was standing on the bank of the Nile, </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_18"><sup>18</sup>when out of the river there came up seven cows, fat and sleek, and they grazed among the reeds. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_19"><sup>19</sup>After them, seven other cows came up—scrawny and very ugly and lean. I had never seen such ugly cows in all the land of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_20"><sup>20</sup>The lean, ugly cows ate up the seven fat cows that came up first. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_21"><sup>21</sup>But even after they ate them, no one could tell that they had done so; they looked just as ugly as before. Then I woke up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_22"> <sup>22</sup>“In my dream I saw seven heads of grain, full and good, growing on a single stalk. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_23"><sup>23</sup>After them, seven other heads sprouted—withered and thin and scorched by the east wind. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_24"><sup>24</sup>The thin heads of grain swallowed up the seven good heads. I told this to the magicians, but none of them could explain it to me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, “The dreams of Pharaoh are one and the same. God has revealed to Pharaoh what he is about to do. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_26"><sup>26</sup>The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good heads of grain are seven years; it is one and the same dream. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_27"><sup>27</sup>The seven lean, ugly cows that came up afterward are seven years, and so are the seven worthless heads of grain scorched by the east wind: They are seven years of famine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_28"> <sup>28</sup>“It is just as I said to Pharaoh: God has shown Pharaoh what he is about to do. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_29"><sup>29</sup>Seven years of great abundance are coming throughout the land of Egypt, </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_30"><sup>30</sup>but seven years of famine will follow them. Then all the abundance in Egypt will be forgotten, and the famine will ravage the land. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_31"><sup>31</sup>The abundance in the land will not be remembered, because the famine that follows it will be so severe. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_32"><sup>32</sup>The reason the dream was given to Pharaoh in two forms is that the matter has been firmly decided by God, and God will do it soon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_33"> <sup>33</sup>“And now let Pharaoh look for a discerning and wise man and put him in charge of the land of Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_34"><sup>34</sup>Let Pharaoh appoint commissioners over the land to take a fifth of the harvest of Egypt during the seven years of abundance. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_35"><sup>35</sup>They should collect all the food of these good years that are coming and store up the grain under the authority of Pharaoh, to be kept in the cities for food. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_36"><sup>36</sup>This food should be held in reserve for the country, to be used during the seven years of famine that will come upon Egypt, so that the country may not be ruined by the famine.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_37"> <sup>37</sup>The plan seemed good to Pharaoh and to all his officials. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_38"><sup>38</sup>So Pharaoh asked them, “Can we find anyone like this man, one in whom is the spirit of God<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or of the gods">⚓</a> ?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_39"> <sup>39</sup>Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Since God has made all this known to you, there is no one so discerning and wise as you. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_40"><sup>40</sup>You shall be in charge of my palace, and all my people are to submit to your orders. Only with respect to the throne will I be greater than you.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Joseph in Charge of Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_41_41"> <sup>41</sup>So Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I hereby put you in charge of the whole land of Egypt.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_42"><sup>42</sup>Then Pharaoh took his signet ring from his finger and put it on Joseph’s finger. He dressed him in robes of fine linen and put a gold chain around his neck. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_43"><sup>43</sup>He had him ride in a chariot as his second-in-command,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in the chariot of his second-in-command ; or in his second chariot">⚓</a> and people shouted before him, “Make way<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Bow down">⚓</a> !” Thus he put him in charge of the whole land of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_44"> <sup>44</sup>Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I am Pharaoh, but without your word no one will lift hand or foot in all Egypt.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_45"><sup>45</sup>Pharaoh gave Joseph the name Zaphenath-Paneah and gave him Asenath daughter of Potiphera, priest of On,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Heliopolis; also in verse 50">⚓</a> to be his wife. And Joseph went throughout the land of Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_46"> <sup>46</sup>Joseph was thirty years old when he entered the service of Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from Pharaoh’s presence and traveled throughout Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_47"><sup>47</sup>During the seven years of abundance the land produced plentifully. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_48"><sup>48</sup>Joseph collected all the food produced in those seven years of abundance in Egypt and stored it in the cities. In each city he put the food grown in the fields surrounding it. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_49"><sup>49</sup>Joseph stored up huge quantities of grain, like the sand of the sea; it was so much that he stopped keeping records because it was beyond measure. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_50"> <sup>50</sup>Before the years of famine came, two sons were born to Joseph by Asenath daughter of Potiphera, priest of On. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_51"><sup>51</sup>Joseph named his firstborn Manasseh<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like and may be derived from the Hebrew for forget.">⚓</a> and said, “It is because God has made me forget all my trouble and all my father’s household.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_52"><sup>52</sup>The second son he named Ephraim<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like the Hebrew for twice fruitful.">⚓</a> and said, “It is because God has made me fruitful in the land of my suffering.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_53"> <sup>53</sup>The seven years of abundance in Egypt came to an end, </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_54"><sup>54</sup>and the seven years of famine began, just as Joseph had said. There was famine in all the other lands, but in the whole land of Egypt there was food. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_55"><sup>55</sup>When all Egypt began to feel the famine, the people cried to Pharaoh for food. Then Pharaoh told all the Egyptians, “Go to Joseph and do what he tells you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_41_56"> <sup>56</sup>When the famine had spread over the whole country, Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold grain to the Egyptians, for the famine was severe throughout Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse sa_41_57"><sup>57</sup>And all the world came to Egypt to buy grain from Joseph, because the famine was severe everywhere. <br/></span>
