---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\43.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>43</h1><h3>The Second Journey to Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_43_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now the famine was still severe in the land. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_2"><sup>2</sup>So when they had eaten all the grain they had brought from Egypt, their father said to them, “Go back and buy us a little more food.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_3"> <sup>3</sup>But Judah said to him, “The man warned us solemnly, ‘You will not see my face again unless your brother is with you.’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_4"><sup>4</sup>If you will send our brother along with us, we will go down and buy food for you. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_5"><sup>5</sup>But if you will not send him, we will not go down, because the man said to us, ‘You will not see my face again unless your brother is with you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_6"> <sup>6</sup>Israel asked, “Why did you bring this trouble on me by telling the man you had another brother?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_7"> <sup>7</sup>They replied, “The man questioned us closely about ourselves and our family. ‘Is your father still living?’ he asked us. ‘Do you have another brother?’ We simply answered his questions. How were we to know he would say, ‘Bring your brother down here’?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Judah said to Israel his father, “Send the boy along with me and we will go at once, so that we and you and our children may live and not die. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_9"><sup>9</sup>I myself will guarantee his safety; you can hold me personally responsible for him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him here before you, I will bear the blame before you all my life. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_10"><sup>10</sup>As it is, if we had not delayed, we could have gone and returned twice.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then their father Israel said to them, “If it must be, then do this: Put some of the best products of the land in your bags and take them down to the man as a gift—a little balm and a little honey, some spices and myrrh, some pistachio nuts and almonds. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_12"><sup>12</sup>Take double the amount of silver with you, for you must return the silver that was put back into the mouths of your sacks. Perhaps it was a mistake. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_13"><sup>13</sup>Take your brother also and go back to the man at once. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_14"><sup>14</sup>And may God Almighty<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew El-Shaddai">⚓</a> grant you mercy before the man so that he will let your other brother and Benjamin come back with you. As for me, if I am bereaved, I am bereaved.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_15"> <sup>15</sup>So the men took the gifts and double the amount of silver, and Benjamin also. They hurried down to Egypt and presented themselves to Joseph. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_16"><sup>16</sup>When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, “Take these men to my house, slaughter an animal and prepare a meal; they are to eat with me at noon.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_17"> <sup>17</sup>The man did as Joseph told him and took the men to Joseph’s house. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_18"><sup>18</sup>Now the men were frightened when they were taken to his house. They thought, “We were brought here because of the silver that was put back into our sacks the first time. He wants to attack us and overpower us and seize us as slaves and take our donkeys.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_19"> <sup>19</sup>So they went up to Joseph’s steward and spoke to him at the entrance to the house. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_20"><sup>20</sup>“We beg your pardon, our lord,” they said, “we came down here the first time to buy food. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_21"><sup>21</sup>But at the place where we stopped for the night we opened our sacks and each of us found his silver—the exact weight—in the mouth of his sack. So we have brought it back with us. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_22"><sup>22</sup>We have also brought additional silver with us to buy food. We don’t know who put our silver in our sacks.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_23"> <sup>23</sup>“It’s all right,” he said. “Don’t be afraid. Your God, the God of your father, has given you treasure in your sacks; I received your silver.” Then he brought Simeon out to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_24"> <sup>24</sup>The steward took the men into Joseph’s house, gave them water to wash their feet and provided fodder for their donkeys. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_25"><sup>25</sup>They prepared their gifts for Joseph’s arrival at noon, because they had heard that they were to eat there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_26"> <sup>26</sup>When Joseph came home, they presented to him the gifts they had brought into the house, and they bowed down before him to the ground. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_27"><sup>27</sup>He asked them how they were, and then he said, “How is your aged father you told me about? Is he still living?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_28"> <sup>28</sup>They replied, “Your servant our father is still alive and well.” And they bowed down, prostrating themselves before him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_29"> <sup>29</sup>As he looked about and saw his brother Benjamin, his own mother’s son, he asked, “Is this your youngest brother, the one you told me about?” And he said, “God be gracious to you, my son.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_30"><sup>30</sup>Deeply moved at the sight of his brother, Joseph hurried out and looked for a place to weep. He went into his private room and wept there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_31"> <sup>31</sup>After he had washed his face, he came out and, controlling himself, said, “Serve the food.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_43_32"> <sup>32</sup>They served him by himself, the brothers by themselves, and the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because Egyptians could not eat with Hebrews, for that is detestable to Egyptians. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_33"><sup>33</sup>The men had been seated before him in the order of their ages, from the firstborn to the youngest; and they looked at each other in astonishment. </span>
<span class="verse sa_43_34"><sup>34</sup>When portions were served to them from Joseph’s table, Benjamin’s portion was five times as much as anyone else’s. So they feasted and drank freely with him. <br/></span>
