---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\44.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>44</h1><h3>A Silver Cup in a Sack </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_44_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Joseph gave these instructions to the steward of his house: “Fill the men’s sacks with as much food as they can carry, and put each man’s silver in the mouth of his sack. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_2"><sup>2</sup>Then put my cup, the silver one, in the mouth of the youngest one’s sack, along with the silver for his grain.” And he did as Joseph said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_3"> <sup>3</sup>As morning dawned, the men were sent on their way with their donkeys. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_4"><sup>4</sup>They had not gone far from the city when Joseph said to his steward, “Go after those men at once, and when you catch up with them, say to them, ‘Why have you repaid good with evil? </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_5"><sup>5</sup>Isn’t this the cup my master drinks from and also uses for divination? This is a wicked thing you have done.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_6"> <sup>6</sup>When he caught up with them, he repeated these words to them. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_7"><sup>7</sup>But they said to him, “Why does my lord say such things? Far be it from your servants to do anything like that! </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_8"><sup>8</sup>We even brought back to you from the land of Canaan the silver we found inside the mouths of our sacks. So why would we steal silver or gold from your master’s house? </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_9"><sup>9</sup>If any of your servants is found to have it, he will die; and the rest of us will become my lord’s slaves.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Very well, then,” he said, “let it be as you say. Whoever is found to have it will become my slave; the rest of you will be free from blame.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_11"> <sup>11</sup>Each of them quickly lowered his sack to the ground and opened it. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_12"><sup>12</sup>Then the steward proceeded to search, beginning with the oldest and ending with the youngest. And the cup was found in Benjamin’s sack. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_13"><sup>13</sup>At this, they tore their clothes. Then they all loaded their donkeys and returned to the city. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_14"> <sup>14</sup>Joseph was still in the house when Judah and his brothers came in, and they threw themselves to the ground before him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_15"><sup>15</sup>Joseph said to them, “What is this you have done? Don’t you know that a man like me can find things out by divination?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_16"> <sup>16</sup>“What can we say to my lord?” Judah replied. “What can we say? How can we prove our innocence? God has uncovered your servants’ guilt. We are now my lord’s slaves—we ourselves and the one who was found to have the cup.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_17"> <sup>17</sup>But Joseph said, “Far be it from me to do such a thing! Only the man who was found to have the cup will become my slave. The rest of you, go back to your father in peace.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Judah went up to him and said: “Pardon your servant, my lord, let me speak a word to my lord. Do not be angry with your servant, though you are equal to Pharaoh himself. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_19"><sup>19</sup>My lord asked his servants, ‘Do you have a father or a brother?’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_20"><sup>20</sup>And we answered, ‘We have an aged father, and there is a young son born to him in his old age. His brother is dead, and he is the only one of his mother’s sons left, and his father loves him.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_21"> <sup>21</sup>“Then you said to your servants, ‘Bring him down to me so I can see him for myself.’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_22"><sup>22</sup>And we said to my lord, ‘The boy cannot leave his father; if he leaves him, his father will die.’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_23"><sup>23</sup>But you told your servants, ‘Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you will not see my face again.’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_24"><sup>24</sup>When we went back to your servant my father, we told him what my lord had said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_25"> <sup>25</sup>“Then our father said, ‘Go back and buy a little more food.’ </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_26"><sup>26</sup>But we said, ‘We cannot go down. Only if our youngest brother is with us will we go. We cannot see the man’s face unless our youngest brother is with us.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_27"> <sup>27</sup>“Your servant my father said to us, ‘You know that my wife bore me two sons. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_28"><sup>28</sup>One of them went away from me, and I said, “He has surely been torn to pieces.” And I have not seen him since. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_29"><sup>29</sup>If you take this one from me too and harm comes to him, you will bring my gray head down to the grave in misery.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_30"> <sup>30</sup>“So now, if the boy is not with us when I go back to your servant my father, and if my father, whose life is closely bound up with the boy’s life, </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_31"><sup>31</sup>sees that the boy isn’t there, he will die. Your servants will bring the gray head of our father down to the grave in sorrow. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_32"><sup>32</sup>Your servant guaranteed the boy’s safety to my father. I said, ‘If I do not bring him back to you, I will bear the blame before you, my father, all my life!’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_44_33"> <sup>33</sup>“Now then, please let your servant remain here as my lord’s slave in place of the boy, and let the boy return with his brothers. </span>
<span class="verse sa_44_34"><sup>34</sup>How can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? No! Do not let me see the misery that would come on my father.” <br/></span>
