---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\45.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>45</h1><h3>Joseph Makes Himself Known </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_45_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Joseph could no longer control himself before all his attendants, and he cried out, “Have everyone leave my presence!” So there was no one with Joseph when he made himself known to his brothers. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_2"><sup>2</sup>And he wept so loudly that the Egyptians heard him, and Pharaoh’s household heard about it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_3"> <sup>3</sup>Joseph said to his brothers, “I am Joseph! Is my father still living?” But his brothers were not able to answer him, because they were terrified at his presence. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then Joseph said to his brothers, “Come close to me.” When they had done so, he said, “I am your brother Joseph, the one you sold into Egypt! </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_5"><sup>5</sup>And now, do not be distressed and do not be angry with yourselves for selling me here, because it was to save lives that God sent me ahead of you. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_6"><sup>6</sup>For two years now there has been famine in the land, and for the next five years there will be no plowing and reaping. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_7"><sup>7</sup>But God sent me ahead of you to preserve for you a remnant on earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or save you as a great band of survivors">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_8"> <sup>8</sup>“So then, it was not you who sent me here, but God. He made me father to Pharaoh, lord of his entire household and ruler of all Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_9"><sup>9</sup>Now hurry back to my father and say to him, ‘This is what your son Joseph says: God has made me lord of all Egypt. Come down to me; don’t delay. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_10"><sup>10</sup>You shall live in the region of Goshen and be near me—you, your children and grandchildren, your flocks and herds, and all you have. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_11"><sup>11</sup>I will provide for you there, because five years of famine are still to come. Otherwise you and your household and all who belong to you will become destitute.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_12"> <sup>12</sup>“You can see for yourselves, and so can my brother Benjamin, that it is really I who am speaking to you. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_13"><sup>13</sup>Tell my father about all the honor accorded me in Egypt and about everything you have seen. And bring my father down here quickly.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then he threw his arms around his brother Benjamin and wept, and Benjamin embraced him, weeping. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_15"><sup>15</sup>And he kissed all his brothers and wept over them. Afterward his brothers talked with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_16"> <sup>16</sup>When the news reached Pharaoh’s palace that Joseph’s brothers had come, Pharaoh and all his officials were pleased. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_17"><sup>17</sup>Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Tell your brothers, ‘Do this: Load your animals and return to the land of Canaan, </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_18"><sup>18</sup>and bring your father and your families back to me. I will give you the best of the land of Egypt and you can enjoy the fat of the land.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_19"> <sup>19</sup>“You are also directed to tell them, ‘Do this: Take some carts from Egypt for your children and your wives, and get your father and come. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_20"><sup>20</sup>Never mind about your belongings, because the best of all Egypt will be yours.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_21"> <sup>21</sup>So the sons of Israel did this. Joseph gave them carts, as Pharaoh had commanded, and he also gave them provisions for their journey. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_22"><sup>22</sup>To each of them he gave new clothing, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 7 1/2 pounds or about 3.5 kilograms">⚓</a> of silver and five sets of clothes. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_23"><sup>23</sup>And this is what he sent to his father: ten donkeys loaded with the best things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain and bread and other provisions for his journey. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_24"><sup>24</sup>Then he sent his brothers away, and as they were leaving he said to them, “Don’t quarrel on the way!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_45_25"> <sup>25</sup>So they went up out of Egypt and came to their father Jacob in the land of Canaan. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_26"><sup>26</sup>They told him, “Joseph is still alive! In fact, he is ruler of all Egypt.” Jacob was stunned; he did not believe them. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_27"><sup>27</sup>But when they told him everything Joseph had said to them, and when he saw the carts Joseph had sent to carry him back, the spirit of their father Jacob revived. </span>
<span class="verse sa_45_28"><sup>28</sup>And Israel said, “I’m convinced! My son Joseph is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.” <br/></span>
