---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\47.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>47</h1></div>
<span class="verse sa_47_1"> <sup>1</sup>Joseph went and told Pharaoh, “My father and brothers, with their flocks and herds and everything they own, have come from the land of Canaan and are now in Goshen.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_2"><sup>2</sup>He chose five of his brothers and presented them before Pharaoh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_3"> <sup>3</sup>Pharaoh asked the brothers, “What is your occupation?” <br/> “Your servants are shepherds,” they replied to Pharaoh, “just as our fathers were.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_4"><sup>4</sup>They also said to him, “We have come to live here for a while, because the famine is severe in Canaan and your servants’ flocks have no pasture. So now, please let your servants settle in Goshen.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_5"> <sup>5</sup>Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Your father and your brothers have come to you, </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_6"><sup>6</sup>and the land of Egypt is before you; settle your father and your brothers in the best part of the land. Let them live in Goshen. And if you know of any among them with special ability, put them in charge of my own livestock.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then Joseph brought his father Jacob in and presented him before Pharaoh. After Jacob blessed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or greeted">⚓</a> Pharaoh, </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_8"><sup>8</sup>Pharaoh asked him, “How old are you?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_9"> <sup>9</sup>And Jacob said to Pharaoh, “The years of my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty. My years have been few and difficult, and they do not equal the years of the pilgrimage of my fathers.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_10"><sup>10</sup>Then Jacob blessed<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or said farewell to">⚓</a> Pharaoh and went out from his presence. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_11"> <sup>11</sup>So Joseph settled his father and his brothers in Egypt and gave them property in the best part of the land, the district of Rameses, as Pharaoh directed. </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_12"><sup>12</sup>Joseph also provided his father and his brothers and all his father’s household with food, according to the number of their children. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Joseph and the Famine </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_47_13"> <sup>13</sup>There was no food, however, in the whole region because the famine was severe; both Egypt and Canaan wasted away because of the famine. </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_14"><sup>14</sup>Joseph collected all the money that was to be found in Egypt and Canaan in payment for the grain they were buying, and he brought it to Pharaoh’s palace. </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_15"><sup>15</sup>When the money of the people of Egypt and Canaan was gone, all Egypt came to Joseph and said, “Give us food. Why should we die before your eyes? Our money is all gone.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_16"> <sup>16</sup>“Then bring your livestock,” said Joseph. “I will sell you food in exchange for your livestock, since your money is gone.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_17"><sup>17</sup>So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and he gave them food in exchange for their horses, their sheep and goats, their cattle and donkeys. And he brought them through that year with food in exchange for all their livestock. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_18"> <sup>18</sup>When that year was over, they came to him the following year and said, “We cannot hide from our lord the fact that since our money is gone and our livestock belongs to you, there is nothing left for our lord except our bodies and our land. </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_19"><sup>19</sup>Why should we perish before your eyes—we and our land as well? Buy us and our land in exchange for food, and we with our land will be in bondage to Pharaoh. Give us seed so that we may live and not die, and that the land may not become desolate.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_20"> <sup>20</sup>So Joseph bought all the land in Egypt for Pharaoh. The Egyptians, one and all, sold their fields, because the famine was too severe for them. The land became Pharaoh’s, </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_21"><sup>21</sup>and Joseph reduced the people to servitude,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Samaritan Pentateuch and Septuagint (see also Vulgate); Masoretic Text and he moved the people into the cities">⚓</a> from one end of Egypt to the other. </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_22"><sup>22</sup>However, he did not buy the land of the priests, because they received a regular allotment from Pharaoh and had food enough from the allotment Pharaoh gave them. That is why they did not sell their land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_23"> <sup>23</sup>Joseph said to the people, “Now that I have bought you and your land today for Pharaoh, here is seed for you so you can plant the ground. </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_24"><sup>24</sup>But when the crop comes in, give a fifth of it to Pharaoh. The other four-fifths you may keep as seed for the fields and as food for yourselves and your households and your children.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_25"> <sup>25</sup>“You have saved our lives,” they said. “May we find favor in the eyes of our lord; we will be in bondage to Pharaoh.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_26"> <sup>26</sup>So Joseph established it as a law concerning land in Egypt—still in force today—that a fifth of the produce belongs to Pharaoh. It was only the land of the priests that did not become Pharaoh’s. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_27"> <sup>27</sup>Now the Israelites settled in Egypt in the region of Goshen. They acquired property there and were fruitful and increased greatly in number. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_28"> <sup>28</sup>Jacob lived in Egypt seventeen years, and the years of his life were a hundred and forty-seven. </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_29"><sup>29</sup>When the time drew near for Israel to die, he called for his son Joseph and said to him, “If I have found favor in your eyes, put your hand under my thigh and promise that you will show me kindness and faithfulness. Do not bury me in Egypt, </span>
<span class="verse sa_47_30"><sup>30</sup>but when I rest with my fathers, carry me out of Egypt and bury me where they are buried.” <br/> “I will do as you say,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_47_31"> <sup>31</sup>“Swear to me,” he said. Then Joseph swore to him, and Israel worshiped as he leaned on the top of his staff.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Israel bowed down at the head of his bed">⚓</a><br/></span>
