---
translation: NIV
group: LAW
bookName: Genesis 
bookNumber: 1
audio: \Audio\NIV\sa\50.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>50</h1></div>
<span class="verse sa_50_1"> <sup>1</sup>Joseph threw himself on his father and wept over him and kissed him. </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_2"><sup>2</sup>Then Joseph directed the physicians in his service to embalm his father Israel. So the physicians embalmed him, </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_3"><sup>3</sup>taking a full forty days, for that was the time required for embalming. And the Egyptians mourned for him seventy days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_4"> <sup>4</sup>When the days of mourning had passed, Joseph said to Pharaoh’s court, “If I have found favor in your eyes, speak to Pharaoh for me. Tell him, </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_5"><sup>5</sup>‘My father made me swear an oath and said, “I am about to die; bury me in the tomb I dug for myself in the land of Canaan.” Now let me go up and bury my father; then I will return.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_6"> <sup>6</sup>Pharaoh said, “Go up and bury your father, as he made you swear to do.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_7"> <sup>7</sup>So Joseph went up to bury his father. All Pharaoh’s officials accompanied him—the dignitaries of his court and all the dignitaries of Egypt— </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_8"><sup>8</sup>besides all the members of Joseph’s household and his brothers and those belonging to his father’s household. Only their children and their flocks and herds were left in Goshen. </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_9"><sup>9</sup>Chariots and horsemen<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or charioteers">⚓</a> also went up with him. It was a very large company. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_10"> <sup>10</sup>When they reached the threshing floor of Atad, near the Jordan, they lamented loudly and bitterly; and there Joseph observed a seven-day period of mourning for his father. </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_11"><sup>11</sup>When the Canaanites who lived there saw the mourning at the threshing floor of Atad, they said, “The Egyptians are holding a solemn ceremony of mourning.” That is why that place near the Jordan is called Abel Mizraim.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means mourning of the Egyptians.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_12"> <sup>12</sup>So Jacob’s sons did as he had commanded them: </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_13"><sup>13</sup>They carried him to the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave in the field of Machpelah, near Mamre, which Abraham had bought along with the field as a burial place from Ephron the Hittite. </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_14"><sup>14</sup>After burying his father, Joseph returned to Egypt, together with his brothers and all the others who had gone with him to bury his father. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Joseph Reassures His Brothers </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_50_15"> <sup>15</sup>When Joseph’s brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, “What if Joseph holds a grudge against us and pays us back for all the wrongs we did to him?” </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_16"><sup>16</sup>So they sent word to Joseph, saying, “Your father left these instructions before he died: </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_17"><sup>17</sup>‘This is what you are to say to Joseph: I ask you to forgive your brothers the sins and the wrongs they committed in treating you so badly.’ Now please forgive the sins of the servants of the God of your father.” When their message came to him, Joseph wept. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_18"> <sup>18</sup>His brothers then came and threw themselves down before him. “We are your slaves,” they said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_19"> <sup>19</sup>But Joseph said to them, “Don’t be afraid. Am I in the place of God? </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_20"><sup>20</sup>You intended to harm me, but God intended it for good to accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many lives. </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_21"><sup>21</sup>So then, don’t be afraid. I will provide for you and your children.” And he reassured them and spoke kindly to them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Death of Joseph </h3></div>
<span class="verse sa_50_22"> <sup>22</sup>Joseph stayed in Egypt, along with all his father’s family. He lived a hundred and ten years </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_23"><sup>23</sup>and saw the third generation of Ephraim’s children. Also the children of Makir son of Manasseh were placed at birth on Joseph’s knees.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, were counted as his">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then Joseph said to his brothers, “I am about to die. But God will surely come to your aid and take you up out of this land to the land he promised on oath to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.” </span>
<span class="verse sa_50_25"><sup>25</sup>And Joseph made the Israelites swear an oath and said, “God will surely come to your aid, and then you must carry my bones up from this place.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse sa_50_26"> <sup>26</sup>So Joseph died at the age of a hundred and ten. And after they embalmed him, he was placed in a coffin in Egypt. <br/></span>
