---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Thessalonians 
bookNumber: 52
audio: \Audio\NIV\1te\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Paul’s Longing to See the Thessalonians </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1te_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>So when we could stand it no longer, we thought it best to be left by ourselves in Athens. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_2"><sup>2</sup>We sent Timothy, who is our brother and co-worker in God’s service in spreading the gospel of Christ, to strengthen and encourage you in your faith, </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_3"><sup>3</sup>so that no one would be unsettled by these trials. For you know quite well that we are destined for them. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_4"><sup>4</sup>In fact, when we were with you, we kept telling you that we would be persecuted. And it turned out that way, as you well know. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_5"><sup>5</sup>For this reason, when I could stand it no longer, I sent to find out about your faith. I was afraid that in some way the tempter had tempted you and that our labors might have been in vain. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Timothy’s Encouraging Report </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1te_3_6"> <sup>6</sup>But Timothy has just now come to us from you and has brought good news about your faith and love. He has told us that you always have pleasant memories of us and that you long to see us, just as we also long to see you. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_7"><sup>7</sup>Therefore, brothers and sisters, in all our distress and persecution we were encouraged about you because of your faith. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_8"><sup>8</sup>For now we really live, since you are standing firm in the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_9"><sup>9</sup>How can we thank God enough for you in return for all the joy we have in the presence of our God because of you? </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_10"><sup>10</sup>Night and day we pray most earnestly that we may see you again and supply what is lacking in your faith. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>Now may our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus clear the way for us to come to you. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_12"><sup>12</sup>May the Lord make your love increase and overflow for each other and for everyone else, just as ours does for you. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_3_13"><sup>13</sup>May he strengthen your hearts so that you will be blameless and holy in the presence of our God and Father when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones. <br/></span>
