---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Thessalonians 
bookNumber: 52
audio: \Audio\NIV\1te\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Living to Please God </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1te_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>As for other matters, brothers and sisters, we instructed you how to live in order to please God, as in fact you are living. Now we ask you and urge you in the Lord Jesus to do this more and more. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_2"><sup>2</sup>For you know what instructions we gave you by the authority of the Lord Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_3"> <sup>3</sup>It is God’s will that you should be sanctified: that you should avoid sexual immorality; </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_4"><sup>4</sup>that each of you should learn to control your own body<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or learn to live with your own wife ; or learn to acquire a wife">⚓</a> in a way that is holy and honorable, </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_5"><sup>5</sup>not in passionate lust like the pagans, who do not know God; </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_6"><sup>6</sup>and that in this matter no one should wrong or take advantage of a brother or sister.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brother or sister (adelphos ) refers here to a believer, whether man or woman, as part of God’s family.">⚓</a> The Lord will punish all those who commit such sins, as we told you and warned you before. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_7"><sup>7</sup>For God did not call us to be impure, but to live a holy life. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_8"><sup>8</sup>Therefore, anyone who rejects this instruction does not reject a human being but God, the very God who gives you his Holy Spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>Now about your love for one another we do not need to write to you, for you yourselves have been taught by God to love each other. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_10"><sup>10</sup>And in fact, you do love all of God’s family throughout Macedonia. Yet we urge you, brothers and sisters, to do so more and more, </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_11"><sup>11</sup>and to make it your ambition to lead a quiet life: You should mind your own business and work with your hands, just as we told you, </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_12"><sup>12</sup>so that your daily life may win the respect of outsiders and so that you will not be dependent on anybody. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Believers Who Have Died </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1te_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>Brothers and sisters, we do not want you to be uninformed about those who sleep in death, so that you do not grieve like the rest of mankind, who have no hope. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_14"><sup>14</sup>For we believe that Jesus died and rose again, and so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in him. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_15"><sup>15</sup>According to the Lord’s word, we tell you that we who are still alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will certainly not precede those who have fallen asleep. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_16"><sup>16</sup>For the Lord himself will come down from heaven, with a loud command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet call of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_17"><sup>17</sup>After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will be with the Lord forever. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_4_18"><sup>18</sup>Therefore encourage one another with these words. <br/></span>
