---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Thessalonians 
bookNumber: 52
audio: \Audio\NIV\1te\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>The Day of the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1te_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now, brothers and sisters, about times and dates we do not need to write to you, </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_2"><sup>2</sup>for you know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_3"><sup>3</sup>While people are saying, “Peace and safety,” destruction will come on them suddenly, as labor pains on a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_4"> <sup>4</sup>But you, brothers and sisters, are not in darkness so that this day should surprise you like a thief. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_5"><sup>5</sup>You are all children of the light and children of the day. We do not belong to the night or to the darkness. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_6"><sup>6</sup>So then, let us not be like others, who are asleep, but let us be awake and sober. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_7"><sup>7</sup>For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, get drunk at night. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_8"><sup>8</sup>But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, putting on faith and love as a breastplate, and the hope of salvation as a helmet. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_9"><sup>9</sup>For God did not appoint us to suffer wrath but to receive salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_10"><sup>10</sup>He died for us so that, whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with him. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_11"><sup>11</sup>Therefore encourage one another and build each other up, just as in fact you are doing. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Instructions </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1te_5_12"> <sup>12</sup>Now we ask you, brothers and sisters, to acknowledge those who work hard among you, who care for you in the Lord and who admonish you. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_13"><sup>13</sup>Hold them in the highest regard in love because of their work. Live in peace with each other. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_14"><sup>14</sup>And we urge you, brothers and sisters, warn those who are idle and disruptive, encourage the disheartened, help the weak, be patient with everyone. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_15"><sup>15</sup>Make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong, but always strive to do what is good for each other and for everyone else. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_16"> <sup>16</sup>Rejoice always, </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_17"><sup>17</sup>pray continually, </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_18"><sup>18</sup>give thanks in all circumstances; for this is God’s will for you in Christ Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_19"> <sup>19</sup>Do not quench the Spirit. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_20"><sup>20</sup>Do not treat prophecies with contempt </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_21"><sup>21</sup>but test them all; hold on to what is good, </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_22"><sup>22</sup>reject every kind of evil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_23"> <sup>23</sup>May God himself, the God of peace, sanctify you through and through. May your whole spirit, soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_24"><sup>24</sup>The one who calls you is faithful, and he will do it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_25"> <sup>25</sup>Brothers and sisters, pray for us. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_26"><sup>26</sup>Greet all God’s people with a holy kiss. </span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_27"><sup>27</sup>I charge you before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers and sisters. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1te_5_28"> <sup>28</sup>The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. <br/></span>
