---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Philemon 
bookNumber: 57
audio: \Audio\NIV\phil\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse phil_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, <br/> To Philemon our dear friend and fellow worker— </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_2"><sup>2</sup>also to Apphia our sister and Archippus our fellow soldier—and to the church that meets in your home: <br/></span>
<span class="verse phil_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>Grace and peace to you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek is plural; also in verses 22 and 25; elsewhere in this letter “you” is singular.">⚓</a> from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Thanksgiving and Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse phil_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>I always thank my God as I remember you in my prayers, </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_5"><sup>5</sup>because I hear about your love for all his holy people and your faith in the Lord Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_6"><sup>6</sup>I pray that your partnership with us in the faith may be effective in deepening your understanding of every good thing we share for the sake of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_7"><sup>7</sup>Your love has given me great joy and encouragement, because you, brother, have refreshed the hearts of the Lord’s people. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Plea for Onesimus </h3></div>
<span class="verse phil_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>Therefore, although in Christ I could be bold and order you to do what you ought to do, </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_9"><sup>9</sup>yet I prefer to appeal to you on the basis of love. It is as none other than Paul—an old man and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus— </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_10"><sup>10</sup>that I appeal to you for my son Onesimus,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means useful.">⚓</a> who became my son while I was in chains. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_11"><sup>11</sup>Formerly he was useless to you, but now he has become useful both to you and to me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phil_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>I am sending him—who is my very heart—back to you. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_13"><sup>13</sup>I would have liked to keep him with me so that he could take your place in helping me while I am in chains for the gospel. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_14"><sup>14</sup>But I did not want to do anything without your consent, so that any favor you do would not seem forced but would be voluntary. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_15"><sup>15</sup>Perhaps the reason he was separated from you for a little while was that you might have him back forever— </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_16"><sup>16</sup>no longer as a slave, but better than a slave, as a dear brother. He is very dear to me but even dearer to you, both as a fellow man and as a brother in the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phil_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>So if you consider me a partner, welcome him as you would welcome me. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_18"><sup>18</sup>If he has done you any wrong or owes you anything, charge it to me. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_19"><sup>19</sup>I, Paul, am writing this with my own hand. I will pay it back—not to mention that you owe me your very self. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_20"><sup>20</sup>I do wish, brother, that I may have some benefit from you in the Lord; refresh my heart in Christ. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_21"><sup>21</sup>Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I ask. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phil_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>And one thing more: Prepare a guest room for me, because I hope to be restored to you in answer to your prayers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phil_1_23"> <sup>23</sup>Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends you greetings. </span>
<span class="verse phil_1_24"><sup>24</sup>And so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas and Luke, my fellow workers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phil_1_25"> <sup>25</sup>The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. <br/></span>
