---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Jesus Greater Than Moses </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore, holy brothers and sisters, who share in the heavenly calling, fix your thoughts on Jesus, whom we acknowledge as our apostle and high priest. </span>
<span class="verse he_3_2"><sup>2</sup>He was faithful to the one who appointed him, just as Moses was faithful in all God’s house. </span>
<span class="verse he_3_3"><sup>3</sup>Jesus has been found worthy of greater honor than Moses, just as the builder of a house has greater honor than the house itself. </span>
<span class="verse he_3_4"><sup>4</sup>For every house is built by someone, but God is the builder of everything. </span>
<span class="verse he_3_5"><sup>5</sup>“Moses was faithful as a servant in all God’s house,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Num. 12:7">⚓</a> bearing witness to what would be spoken by God in the future. </span>
<span class="verse he_3_6"><sup>6</sup>But Christ is faithful as the Son over God’s house. And we are his house, if indeed we hold firmly to our confidence and the hope in which we glory. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Warning Against Unbelief </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>So, as the Holy Spirit says: <br/>  “Today, if you hear his voice, <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_3_8">   <sup>8</sup>do not harden your hearts <br/>  as you did in the rebellion, <br/>   during the time of testing in the wilderness, <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_3_9">  <sup>9</sup>where your ancestors tested and tried me, <br/>   though for forty years they saw what I did. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_3_10">  <sup>10</sup>That is why I was angry with that generation; <br/>   I said, ‘Their hearts are always going astray, <br/>   and they have not known my ways.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_3_11">  <sup>11</sup>So I declared on oath in my anger, <br/>   ‘They shall never enter my rest.’ ”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 95:7-11">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>See to it, brothers and sisters, that none of you has a sinful, unbelieving heart that turns away from the living God. </span>
<span class="verse he_3_13"><sup>13</sup>But encourage one another daily, as long as it is called “Today,” so that none of you may be hardened by sin’s deceitfulness. </span>
<span class="verse he_3_14"><sup>14</sup>We have come to share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original conviction firmly to the very end. </span>
<span class="verse he_3_15"><sup>15</sup>As has just been said: <br/>  “Today, if you hear his voice, <br/>   do not harden your hearts <br/>   as you did in the rebellion.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 95:7,8">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_3_16"> <sup>16</sup>Who were they who heard and rebelled? Were they not all those Moses led out of Egypt? </span>
<span class="verse he_3_17"><sup>17</sup>And with whom was he angry for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies perished in the wilderness? </span>
<span class="verse he_3_18"><sup>18</sup>And to whom did God swear that they would never enter his rest if not to those who disobeyed? </span>
<span class="verse he_3_19"><sup>19</sup>So we see that they were not able to enter, because of their unbelief. <br/></span>
