---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Jesus the Great High Priest </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Every high priest is selected from among the people and is appointed to represent the people in matters related to God, to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. </span>
<span class="verse he_5_2"><sup>2</sup>He is able to deal gently with those who are ignorant and are going astray, since he himself is subject to weakness. </span>
<span class="verse he_5_3"><sup>3</sup>This is why he has to offer sacrifices for his own sins, as well as for the sins of the people. </span>
<span class="verse he_5_4"><sup>4</sup>And no one takes this honor on himself, but he receives it when called by God, just as Aaron was. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_5_5"> <sup>5</sup>In the same way, Christ did not take on himself the glory of becoming a high priest. But God said to him, <br/>  “You are my Son; <br/>   today I have become your Father.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 2:7">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_5_6"><sup>6</sup>And he says in another place, <br/>  “You are a priest forever, <br/>   in the order of Melchizedek.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 110:4">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_5_7"> <sup>7</sup>During the days of Jesus’ life on earth, he offered up prayers and petitions with fervent cries and tears to the one who could save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverent submission. </span>
<span class="verse he_5_8"><sup>8</sup>Son though he was, he learned obedience from what he suffered </span>
<span class="verse he_5_9"><sup>9</sup>and, once made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation for all who obey him </span>
<span class="verse he_5_10"><sup>10</sup>and was designated by God to be high priest in the order of Melchizedek. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_5_11"> <sup>11</sup>We have much to say about this, but it is hard to make it clear to you because you no longer try to understand. </span>
<span class="verse he_5_12"><sup>12</sup>In fact, though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you the elementary truths of God’s word all over again. You need milk, not solid food! </span>
<span class="verse he_5_13"><sup>13</sup>Anyone who lives on milk, being still an infant, is not acquainted with the teaching about righteousness. </span>
<span class="verse he_5_14"><sup>14</sup>But solid food is for the mature, who by constant use have trained themselves to distinguish good from evil. <br/></span>
