---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Warning Against Falling Away </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore let us move beyond the elementary teachings about Christ and be taken forward to maturity, not laying again the foundation of repentance from acts that lead to death,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or from useless rituals">⚓</a> and of faith in God, </span>
<span class="verse he_6_2"><sup>2</sup>instruction about cleansing rites,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about baptisms">⚓</a> the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_3"><sup>3</sup>And God permitting, we will do so. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_6_4"> <sup>4</sup>It is impossible for those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, who have shared in the Holy Spirit, </span>
<span class="verse he_6_5"><sup>5</sup>who have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the coming age </span>
<span class="verse he_6_6"><sup>6</sup>and who have fallen<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or age, 6if they fall">⚓</a> away, to be brought back to repentance. To their loss they are crucifying the Son of God all over again and subjecting him to public disgrace. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_7"><sup>7</sup>Land that drinks in the rain often falling on it and that produces a crop useful to those for whom it is farmed receives the blessing of God. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_8"><sup>8</sup>But land that produces thorns and thistles is worthless and is in danger of being cursed. In the end it will be burned. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>Even though we speak like this, dear friends, we are convinced of better things in your case—the things that have to do with salvation. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_10"><sup>10</sup>God is not unjust; he will not forget your work and the love you have shown him as you have helped his people and continue to help them. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_11"><sup>11</sup>We want each of you to show this same diligence to the very end, so that what you hope for may be fully realized. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_12"><sup>12</sup>We do not want you to become lazy, but to imitate those who through faith and patience inherit what has been promised. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Certainty of God’s Promise </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_6_13"> <sup>13</sup>When God made his promise to Abraham, since there was no one greater for him to swear by, he swore by himself, </span>
<span class="verse he_6_14"><sup>14</sup>saying, “I will surely bless you and give you many descendants.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 22:17">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse he_6_15"><sup>15</sup>And so after waiting patiently, Abraham received what was promised. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>People swear by someone greater than themselves, and the oath confirms what is said and puts an end to all argument. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_17"><sup>17</sup>Because God wanted to make the unchanging nature of his purpose very clear to the heirs of what was promised, he confirmed it with an oath. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_18"><sup>18</sup>God did this so that, by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled to take hold of the hope set before us may be greatly encouraged. </span>
<span class="verse he_6_19"><sup>19</sup>We have this hope as an anchor for the soul, firm and secure. It enters the inner sanctuary behind the curtain, </span>
<span class="verse he_6_20"><sup>20</sup>where our forerunner, Jesus, has entered on our behalf. He has become a high priest forever, in the order of Melchizedek. <br/></span>
