---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Melchizedek the Priest </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>This Melchizedek was king of Salem and priest of God Most High. He met Abraham returning from the defeat of the kings and blessed him, </span>
<span class="verse he_7_2"><sup>2</sup>and Abraham gave him a tenth of everything. First, the name Melchizedek means “king of righteousness”; then also, “king of Salem” means “king of peace.” </span>
<span class="verse he_7_3"><sup>3</sup>Without father or mother, without genealogy, without beginning of days or end of life, resembling the Son of God, he remains a priest forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>Just think how great he was: Even the patriarch Abraham gave him a tenth of the plunder! </span>
<span class="verse he_7_5"><sup>5</sup>Now the law requires the descendants of Levi who become priests to collect a tenth from the people—that is, from their fellow Israelites—even though they also are descended from Abraham. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_6"><sup>6</sup>This man, however, did not trace his descent from Levi, yet he collected a tenth from Abraham and blessed him who had the promises. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_7"><sup>7</sup>And without doubt the lesser is blessed by the greater. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_8"><sup>8</sup>In the one case, the tenth is collected by people who die; but in the other case, by him who is declared to be living. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_9"><sup>9</sup>One might even say that Levi, who collects the tenth, paid the tenth through Abraham, </span>
<span class="verse he_7_10"><sup>10</sup>because when Melchizedek met Abraham, Levi was still in the body of his ancestor. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Like Melchizedek </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_7_11"> <sup>11</sup>If perfection could have been attained through the Levitical priesthood—and indeed the law given to the people established that priesthood—why was there still need for another priest to come, one in the order of Melchizedek, not in the order of Aaron? </span>
<span class="verse he_7_12"><sup>12</sup>For when the priesthood is changed, the law must be changed also. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_13"><sup>13</sup>He of whom these things are said belonged to a different tribe, and no one from that tribe has ever served at the altar. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_14"><sup>14</sup>For it is clear that our Lord descended from Judah, and in regard to that tribe Moses said nothing about priests. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_15"><sup>15</sup>And what we have said is even more clear if another priest like Melchizedek appears, </span>
<span class="verse he_7_16"><sup>16</sup>one who has become a priest not on the basis of a regulation as to his ancestry but on the basis of the power of an indestructible life. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_17"><sup>17</sup>For it is declared: <br/>  “You are a priest forever, <br/>   in the order of Melchizedek.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 110:4">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_7_18"> <sup>18</sup>The former regulation is set aside because it was weak and useless </span>
<span class="verse he_7_19"><sup>19</sup>(for the law made nothing perfect), and a better hope is introduced, by which we draw near to God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_7_20"> <sup>20</sup>And it was not without an oath! Others became priests without any oath, </span>
<span class="verse he_7_21"><sup>21</sup>but he became a priest with an oath when God said to him: <br/>  “The Lord has sworn <br/>   and will not change his mind: <br/>   ‘You are a priest forever.’ ”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 110:4">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_7_22"><sup>22</sup>Because of this oath, Jesus has become the guarantor of a better covenant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_7_23"> <sup>23</sup>Now there have been many of those priests, since death prevented them from continuing in office; </span>
<span class="verse he_7_24"><sup>24</sup>but because Jesus lives forever, he has a permanent priesthood. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_25"><sup>25</sup>Therefore he is able to save completely<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or forever">⚓</a> those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_7_26"> <sup>26</sup>Such a high priest truly meets our need—one who is holy, blameless, pure, set apart from sinners, exalted above the heavens. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_27"><sup>27</sup>Unlike the other high priests, he does not need to offer sacrifices day after day, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. He sacrificed for their sins once for all when he offered himself. </span>
<span class="verse he_7_28"><sup>28</sup>For the law appoints as high priests men in all their weakness; but the oath, which came after the law, appointed the Son, who has been made perfect forever. <br/></span>
