---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The High Priest of a New Covenant </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now the main point of what we are saying is this: We do have such a high priest, who sat down at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven, </span>
<span class="verse he_8_2"><sup>2</sup>and who serves in the sanctuary, the true tabernacle set up by the Lord, not by a mere human being. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_8_3"> <sup>3</sup>Every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices, and so it was necessary for this one also to have something to offer. </span>
<span class="verse he_8_4"><sup>4</sup>If he were on earth, he would not be a priest, for there are already priests who offer the gifts prescribed by the law. </span>
<span class="verse he_8_5"><sup>5</sup>They serve at a sanctuary that is a copy and shadow of what is in heaven. This is why Moses was warned when he was about to build the tabernacle: “See to it that you make everything according to the pattern shown you on the mountain.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 25:40">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse he_8_6"><sup>6</sup>But in fact the ministry Jesus has received is as superior to theirs as the covenant of which he is mediator is superior to the old one, since the new covenant is established on better promises. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_8_7"> <sup>7</sup>For if there had been nothing wrong with that first covenant, no place would have been sought for another. </span>
<span class="verse he_8_8"><sup>8</sup>But God found fault with the people and said<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts may be translated fault and said to the people.">⚓</a> : <br/>  “The days are coming, declares the Lord, <br/>   when I will make a new covenant <br/>  with the people of Israel <br/>   and with the people of Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_8_9">  <sup>9</sup>It will not be like the covenant <br/>   I made with their ancestors <br/>  when I took them by the hand <br/>   to lead them out of Egypt, <br/>  because they did not remain faithful to my covenant, <br/>   and I turned away from them, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_8_10">  <sup>10</sup>This is the covenant I will establish with the people of Israel <br/>   after that time, declares the Lord. <br/>  I will put my laws in their minds <br/>   and write them on their hearts. <br/>  I will be their God, <br/>   and they will be my people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_8_11">  <sup>11</sup>No longer will they teach their neighbor, <br/>   or say to one another, ‘Know the Lord,’ <br/>  because they will all know me, <br/>   from the least of them to the greatest. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_8_12">  <sup>12</sup>For I will forgive their wickedness <br/>   and will remember their sins no more.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 31:31-34">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_8_13"> <sup>13</sup>By calling this covenant “new,” he has made the first one obsolete; and what is obsolete and outdated will soon disappear. <br/></span>
