---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>Christ’s Sacrifice Once for All </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>The law is only a shadow of the good things that are coming—not the realities themselves. For this reason it can never, by the same sacrifices repeated endlessly year after year, make perfect those who draw near to worship. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_2"><sup>2</sup>Otherwise, would they not have stopped being offered? For the worshipers would have been cleansed once for all, and would no longer have felt guilty for their sins. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_3"><sup>3</sup>But those sacrifices are an annual reminder of sins. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_4"><sup>4</sup>It is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_5"> <sup>5</sup>Therefore, when Christ came into the world, he said: <br/>  “Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, <br/>   but a body you prepared for me; <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_6">  <sup>6</sup>with burnt offerings and sin offerings <br/>   you were not pleased. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_7">  <sup>7</sup>Then I said, ‘Here I am—it is written about me in the scroll— <br/>   I have come to do your will, my God.’ ”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 40:6-8 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_8"><sup>8</sup>First he said, “Sacrifices and offerings, burnt offerings and sin offerings you did not desire, nor were you pleased with them”—though they were offered in accordance with the law. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_9"><sup>9</sup>Then he said, “Here I am, I have come to do your will.” He sets aside the first to establish the second. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_10"><sup>10</sup>And by that will, we have been made holy through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_11"> <sup>11</sup>Day after day every priest stands and performs his religious duties; again and again he offers the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_12"><sup>12</sup>But when this priest had offered for all time one sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, </span>
<span class="verse he_10_13"><sup>13</sup>and since that time he waits for his enemies to be made his footstool. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_14"><sup>14</sup>For by one sacrifice he has made perfect forever those who are being made holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_15"> <sup>15</sup>The Holy Spirit also testifies to us about this. First he says: <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_16">  <sup>16</sup>“This is the covenant I will make with them <br/>   after that time, says the Lord. <br/>  I will put my laws in their hearts, <br/>   and I will write them on their minds.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 31:33">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_17"><sup>17</sup>Then he adds: <br/>  “Their sins and lawless acts <br/>   I will remember no more.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Jer. 31:34">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>And where these have been forgiven, sacrifice for sin is no longer necessary. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Call to Persevere in Faith </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_10_19"> <sup>19</sup>Therefore, brothers and sisters, since we have confidence to enter the Most Holy Place by the blood of Jesus, </span>
<span class="verse he_10_20"><sup>20</sup>by a new and living way opened for us through the curtain, that is, his body, </span>
<span class="verse he_10_21"><sup>21</sup>and since we have a great priest over the house of God, </span>
<span class="verse he_10_22"><sup>22</sup>let us draw near to God with a sincere heart and with the full assurance that faith brings, having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience and having our bodies washed with pure water. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_23"><sup>23</sup>Let us hold unswervingly to the hope we profess, for he who promised is faithful. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_24"><sup>24</sup>And let us consider how we may spur one another on toward love and good deeds, </span>
<span class="verse he_10_25"><sup>25</sup>not giving up meeting together, as some are in the habit of doing, but encouraging one another—and all the more as you see the Day approaching. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_26"> <sup>26</sup>If we deliberately keep on sinning after we have received the knowledge of the truth, no sacrifice for sins is left, </span>
<span class="verse he_10_27"><sup>27</sup>but only a fearful expectation of judgment and of raging fire that will consume the enemies of God. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_28"><sup>28</sup>Anyone who rejected the law of Moses died without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_29"><sup>29</sup>How much more severely do you think someone deserves to be punished who has trampled the Son of God underfoot, who has treated as an unholy thing the blood of the covenant that sanctified them, and who has insulted the Spirit of grace? </span>
<span class="verse he_10_30"><sup>30</sup>For we know him who said, “It is mine to avenge; I will repay,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 32:35">⚓</a> and again, “The Lord will judge his people.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 32:36; Psalm 135:14">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse he_10_31"><sup>31</sup>It is a dreadful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_32"> <sup>32</sup>Remember those earlier days after you had received the light, when you endured in a great conflict full of suffering. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_33"><sup>33</sup>Sometimes you were publicly exposed to insult and persecution; at other times you stood side by side with those who were so treated. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_34"><sup>34</sup>You suffered along with those in prison and joyfully accepted the confiscation of your property, because you knew that you yourselves had better and lasting possessions. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_35"><sup>35</sup>So do not throw away your confidence; it will be richly rewarded. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_36"> <sup>36</sup>You need to persevere so that when you have done the will of God, you will receive what he has promised. </span>
<span class="verse he_10_37"><sup>37</sup>For, <br/>  “In just a little while, <br/>   he who is coming will come <br/>   and will not delay.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 26:20; Hab. 2:3">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_38"><sup>38</sup>And, <br/>  “But my righteous<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts But the righteous">⚓</a> one will live by faith. <br/>   And I take no pleasure <br/>   in the one who shrinks back.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hab. 2:4 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_10_39"><sup>39</sup>But we do not belong to those who shrink back and are destroyed, but to those who have faith and are saved. <br/></span>
