---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>Faith in Action </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now faith is confidence in what we hope for and assurance about what we do not see. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_2"><sup>2</sup>This is what the ancients were commended for. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_3"> <sup>3</sup>By faith we understand that the universe was formed at God’s command, so that what is seen was not made out of what was visible. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>By faith Abel brought God a better offering than Cain did. By faith he was commended as righteous, when God spoke well of his offerings. And by faith Abel still speaks, even though he is dead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_5"> <sup>5</sup>By faith Enoch was taken from this life, so that he did not experience death: “He could not be found, because God had taken him away.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 5:24">⚓</a> For before he was taken, he was commended as one who pleased God. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_6"><sup>6</sup>And without faith it is impossible to please God, because anyone who comes to him must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who earnestly seek him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>By faith Noah, when warned about things not yet seen, in holy fear built an ark to save his family. By his faith he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness that is in keeping with faith. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_8"> <sup>8</sup>By faith Abraham, when called to go to a place he would later receive as his inheritance, obeyed and went, even though he did not know where he was going. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_9"><sup>9</sup>By faith he made his home in the promised land like a stranger in a foreign country; he lived in tents, as did Isaac and Jacob, who were heirs with him of the same promise. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_10"><sup>10</sup>For he was looking forward to the city with foundations, whose architect and builder is God. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_11"><sup>11</sup>And by faith even Sarah, who was past childbearing age, was enabled to bear children because she<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or By faith Abraham, even though he was too old to have children—and Sarah herself was not able to conceive—was enabled to become a father because he">⚓</a> considered him faithful who had made the promise. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_12"><sup>12</sup>And so from this one man, and he as good as dead, came descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and as countless as the sand on the seashore. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>All these people were still living by faith when they died. They did not receive the things promised; they only saw them and welcomed them from a distance, admitting that they were foreigners and strangers on earth. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_14"><sup>14</sup>People who say such things show that they are looking for a country of their own. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_15"><sup>15</sup>If they had been thinking of the country they had left, they would have had opportunity to return. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_16"><sup>16</sup>Instead, they were longing for a better country—a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_17"> <sup>17</sup>By faith Abraham, when God tested him, offered Isaac as a sacrifice. He who had embraced the promises was about to sacrifice his one and only son, </span>
<span class="verse he_11_18"><sup>18</sup>even though God had said to him, “It is through Isaac that your offspring will be reckoned.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 21:12">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse he_11_19"><sup>19</sup>Abraham reasoned that God could even raise the dead, and so in a manner of speaking he did receive Isaac back from death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_20"> <sup>20</sup>By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau in regard to their future. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_21"> <sup>21</sup>By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of Joseph’s sons, and worshiped as he leaned on the top of his staff. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>By faith Joseph, when his end was near, spoke about the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt and gave instructions concerning the burial of his bones. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_23"> <sup>23</sup>By faith Moses’ parents hid him for three months after he was born, because they saw he was no ordinary child, and they were not afraid of the king’s edict. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_24"> <sup>24</sup>By faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be known as the son of Pharaoh’s daughter. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_25"><sup>25</sup>He chose to be mistreated along with the people of God rather than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_26"><sup>26</sup>He regarded disgrace for the sake of Christ as of greater value than the treasures of Egypt, because he was looking ahead to his reward. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_27"><sup>27</sup>By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the king’s anger; he persevered because he saw him who is invisible. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_28"><sup>28</sup>By faith he kept the Passover and the application of blood, so that the destroyer of the firstborn would not touch the firstborn of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_29"> <sup>29</sup>By faith the people passed through the Red Sea as on dry land; but when the Egyptians tried to do so, they were drowned. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_30"> <sup>30</sup>By faith the walls of Jericho fell, after the army had marched around them for seven days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_31"> <sup>31</sup>By faith the prostitute Rahab, because she welcomed the spies, was not killed with those who were disobedient.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or unbelieving">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_32"> <sup>32</sup>And what more shall I say? I do not have time to tell about Gideon, Barak, Samson and Jephthah, about David and Samuel and the prophets, </span>
<span class="verse he_11_33"><sup>33</sup>who through faith conquered kingdoms, administered justice, and gained what was promised; who shut the mouths of lions, </span>
<span class="verse he_11_34"><sup>34</sup>quenched the fury of the flames, and escaped the edge of the sword; whose weakness was turned to strength; and who became powerful in battle and routed foreign armies. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_35"><sup>35</sup>Women received back their dead, raised to life again. There were others who were tortured, refusing to be released so that they might gain an even better resurrection. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_36"><sup>36</sup>Some faced jeers and flogging, and even chains and imprisonment. </span>
<span class="verse he_11_37"><sup>37</sup>They were put to death by stoning;<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts stoning; they were put to the test;">⚓</a> they were sawed in two; they were killed by the sword. They went about in sheepskins and goatskins, destitute, persecuted and mistreated— </span>
<span class="verse he_11_38"><sup>38</sup>the world was not worthy of them. They wandered in deserts and mountains, living in caves and in holes in the ground. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_11_39"> <sup>39</sup>These were all commended for their faith, yet none of them received what had been promised, </span>
<span class="verse he_11_40"><sup>40</sup>since God had planned something better for us so that only together with us would they be made perfect. <br/></span>
