---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1></div>
<span class="verse he_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles. And let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us, </span>
<span class="verse he_12_2"><sup>2</sup>fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of faith. For the joy set before him he endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. </span>
<span class="verse he_12_3"><sup>3</sup>Consider him who endured such opposition from sinners, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God Disciplines His Children </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_12_4"> <sup>4</sup>In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. </span>
<span class="verse he_12_5"><sup>5</sup>And have you completely forgotten this word of encouragement that addresses you as a father addresses his son? It says, <br/>  “My son, do not make light of the Lord’s discipline, <br/>   and do not lose heart when he rebukes you, <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_12_6">  <sup>6</sup>because the Lord disciplines the one he loves, <br/>   and he chastens everyone he accepts as his son.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Prov. 3:11,12 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>Endure hardship as discipline; God is treating you as his children. For what children are not disciplined by their father? </span>
<span class="verse he_12_8"><sup>8</sup>If you are not disciplined—and everyone undergoes discipline—then you are not legitimate, not true sons and daughters at all. </span>
<span class="verse he_12_9"><sup>9</sup>Moreover, we have all had human fathers who disciplined us and we respected them for it. How much more should we submit to the Father of spirits and live! </span>
<span class="verse he_12_10"><sup>10</sup>They disciplined us for a little while as they thought best; but God disciplines us for our good, in order that we may share in his holiness. </span>
<span class="verse he_12_11"><sup>11</sup>No discipline seems pleasant at the time, but painful. Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_12_12"> <sup>12</sup>Therefore, strengthen your feeble arms and weak knees. </span>
<span class="verse he_12_13"><sup>13</sup>“Make level paths for your feet,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Prov. 4:26">⚓</a> so that the lame may not be disabled, but rather healed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Warning and Encouragement </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_12_14"> <sup>14</sup>Make every effort to live in peace with everyone and to be holy; without holiness no one will see the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse he_12_15"><sup>15</sup>See to it that no one falls short of the grace of God and that no bitter root grows up to cause trouble and defile many. </span>
<span class="verse he_12_16"><sup>16</sup>See that no one is sexually immoral, or is godless like Esau, who for a single meal sold his inheritance rights as the oldest son. </span>
<span class="verse he_12_17"><sup>17</sup>Afterward, as you know, when he wanted to inherit this blessing, he was rejected. Even though he sought the blessing with tears, he could not change what he had done. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Mountain of Fear and the Mountain of Joy </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_12_18"> <sup>18</sup>You have not come to a mountain that can be touched and that is burning with fire; to darkness, gloom and storm; </span>
<span class="verse he_12_19"><sup>19</sup>to a trumpet blast or to such a voice speaking words that those who heard it begged that no further word be spoken to them, </span>
<span class="verse he_12_20"><sup>20</sup>because they could not bear what was commanded: “If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned to death.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 19:12,13">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse he_12_21"><sup>21</sup>The sight was so terrifying that Moses said, “I am trembling with fear.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Deut. 9:19.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_12_22"> <sup>22</sup>But you have come to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. You have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly, </span>
<span class="verse he_12_23"><sup>23</sup>to the church of the firstborn, whose names are written in heaven. You have come to God, the Judge of all, to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, </span>
<span class="verse he_12_24"><sup>24</sup>to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_12_25"> <sup>25</sup>See to it that you do not refuse him who speaks. If they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, how much less will we, if we turn away from him who warns us from heaven? </span>
<span class="verse he_12_26"><sup>26</sup>At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, “Once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heavens.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Haggai 2:6">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse he_12_27"><sup>27</sup>The words “once more” indicate the removing of what can be shaken—that is, created things—so that what cannot be shaken may remain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_12_28"> <sup>28</sup>Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful, and so worship God acceptably with reverence and awe, </span>
<span class="verse he_12_29"><sup>29</sup>for our “God is a consuming fire.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 4:24">⚓</a><br/></span>
