---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: Hebrews 
bookNumber: 58
audio: \Audio\NIV\he\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Concluding Exhortations </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>Keep on loving one another as brothers and sisters. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_2"><sup>2</sup>Do not forget to show hospitality to strangers, for by so doing some people have shown hospitality to angels without knowing it. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_3"><sup>3</sup>Continue to remember those in prison as if you were together with them in prison, and those who are mistreated as if you yourselves were suffering. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_4"> <sup>4</sup>Marriage should be honored by all, and the marriage bed kept pure, for God will judge the adulterer and all the sexually immoral. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_5"><sup>5</sup>Keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you have, because God has said, <br/>  “Never will I leave you; <br/>   never will I forsake you.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 31:6">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_6"><sup>6</sup>So we say with confidence, <br/>  “The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid. <br/>   What can mere mortals do to me?”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 118:6,7">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_7"> <sup>7</sup>Remember your leaders, who spoke the word of God to you. Consider the outcome of their way of life and imitate their faith. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_8"><sup>8</sup>Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_9"> <sup>9</sup>Do not be carried away by all kinds of strange teachings. It is good for our hearts to be strengthened by grace, not by eating ceremonial foods, which is of no benefit to those who do so. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_10"><sup>10</sup>We have an altar from which those who minister at the tabernacle have no right to eat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_11"> <sup>11</sup>The high priest carries the blood of animals into the Most Holy Place as a sin offering, but the bodies are burned outside the camp. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_12"><sup>12</sup>And so Jesus also suffered outside the city gate to make the people holy through his own blood. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_13"><sup>13</sup>Let us, then, go to him outside the camp, bearing the disgrace he bore. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_14"><sup>14</sup>For here we do not have an enduring city, but we are looking for the city that is to come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_15"> <sup>15</sup>Through Jesus, therefore, let us continually offer to God a sacrifice of praise—the fruit of lips that openly profess his name. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_16"><sup>16</sup>And do not forget to do good and to share with others, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_17"> <sup>17</sup>Have confidence in your leaders and submit to their authority, because they keep watch over you as those who must give an account. Do this so that their work will be a joy, not a burden, for that would be of no benefit to you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_18"> <sup>18</sup>Pray for us. We are sure that we have a clear conscience and desire to live honorably in every way. </span>
<span class="verse he_13_19"><sup>19</sup>I particularly urge you to pray so that I may be restored to you soon. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Benediction and Final Greetings </h3></div>
<span class="verse he_13_20"> <sup>20</sup>Now may the God of peace, who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great Shepherd of the sheep, </span>
<span class="verse he_13_21"><sup>21</sup>equip you with everything good for doing his will, and may he work in us what is pleasing to him, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_22"> <sup>22</sup>Brothers and sisters, I urge you to bear with my word of exhortation, for in fact I have written to you quite briefly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_23"> <sup>23</sup>I want you to know that our brother Timothy has been released. If he arrives soon, I will come with him to see you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_24"> <sup>24</sup>Greet all your leaders and all the Lord’s people. Those from Italy send you their greetings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse he_13_25"> <sup>25</sup>Grace be with you all. <br/></span>
