---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Lamentations 
bookNumber: 25
audio: \Audio\NIV\ca\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse ca_1_1">  <sup>1</sup>How deserted lies the city, <br/>   once so full of people! <br/>  How like a widow is she, <br/>   who once was great among the nations! <br/>  She who was queen among the provinces <br/>   has now become a slave. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_2">  <sup>2</sup>Bitterly she weeps at night, <br/>   tears are on her cheeks. <br/>  Among all her lovers <br/>   there is no one to comfort her. <br/>  All her friends have betrayed her; <br/>   they have become her enemies. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_3">  <sup>3</sup>After affliction and harsh labor, <br/>   Judah has gone into exile. <br/>  She dwells among the nations; <br/>   she finds no resting place. <br/>  All who pursue her have overtaken her <br/>   in the midst of her distress. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_4">  <sup>4</sup>The roads to Zion mourn, <br/>   for no one comes to her appointed festivals. <br/>  All her gateways are desolate, <br/>   her priests groan, <br/>  her young women grieve, <br/>   and she is in bitter anguish. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_5">  <sup>5</sup>Her foes have become her masters; <br/>   her enemies are at ease. <br/>  The Lord has brought her grief <br/>   because of her many sins. <br/>  Her children have gone into exile, <br/>   captive before the foe. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_6">  <sup>6</sup>All the splendor has departed <br/>   from Daughter Zion. <br/>  Her princes are like deer <br/>   that find no pasture; <br/>  in weakness they have fled <br/>   before the pursuer. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_7">  <sup>7</sup>In the days of her affliction and wandering <br/>   Jerusalem remembers all the treasures <br/>   that were hers in days of old. <br/>  When her people fell into enemy hands, <br/>   there was no one to help her. <br/>  Her enemies looked at her <br/>   and laughed at her destruction. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_8">  <sup>8</sup>Jerusalem has sinned greatly <br/>   and so has become unclean. <br/>  All who honored her despise her, <br/>   for they have all seen her naked; <br/>  she herself groans <br/>   and turns away. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_9">  <sup>9</sup>Her filthiness clung to her skirts; <br/>   she did not consider her future. <br/>  Her fall was astounding; <br/>   there was none to comfort her. <br/>  “Look, Lord, on my affliction, <br/>   for the enemy has triumphed.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_10">  <sup>10</sup>The enemy laid hands <br/>   on all her treasures; <br/>  she saw pagan nations <br/>   enter her sanctuary— <br/>  those you had forbidden <br/>   to enter your assembly. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_11">  <sup>11</sup>All her people groan <br/>   as they search for bread; <br/>  they barter their treasures for food <br/>   to keep themselves alive. <br/>  “Look, Lord, and consider, <br/>   for I am despised.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_12">  <sup>12</sup>“Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? <br/>   Look around and see. <br/>  Is any suffering like my suffering <br/>   that was inflicted on me, <br/>  that the Lord brought on me <br/>   in the day of his fierce anger? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_13">  <sup>13</sup>“From on high he sent fire, <br/>   sent it down into my bones. <br/>  He spread a net for my feet <br/>   and turned me back. <br/>  He made me desolate, <br/>   faint all the day long. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_14">  <sup>14</sup>“My sins have been bound into a yoke<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most Hebrew manuscripts; many Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint He kept watch over my sins">⚓</a> ; <br/>   by his hands they were woven together. <br/>  They have been hung on my neck, <br/>   and the Lord has sapped my strength. <br/>  He has given me into the hands <br/>   of those I cannot withstand. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_15">  <sup>15</sup>“The Lord has rejected <br/>   all the warriors in my midst; <br/>  he has summoned an army against me <br/>   to<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or has set a time for me / when he will">⚓</a> crush my young men. <br/>  In his winepress the Lord has trampled <br/>   Virgin Daughter Judah. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_16">  <sup>16</sup>“This is why I weep <br/>   and my eyes overflow with tears. <br/>  No one is near to comfort me, <br/>   no one to restore my spirit. <br/>  My children are destitute <br/>   because the enemy has prevailed.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_17">  <sup>17</sup>Zion stretches out her hands, <br/>   but there is no one to comfort her. <br/>  The Lord has decreed for Jacob <br/>   that his neighbors become his foes; <br/>  Jerusalem has become <br/>   an unclean thing among them. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_18">  <sup>18</sup>“The Lord is righteous, <br/>   yet I rebelled against his command. <br/>  Listen, all you peoples; <br/>   look on my suffering. <br/>  My young men and young women <br/>   have gone into exile. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_19">  <sup>19</sup>“I called to my allies <br/>   but they betrayed me. <br/>  My priests and my elders <br/>   perished in the city <br/>  while they searched for food <br/>   to keep themselves alive. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_20">  <sup>20</sup>“See, Lord, how distressed I am! <br/>   I am in torment within, <br/>  and in my heart I am disturbed, <br/>   for I have been most rebellious. <br/>  Outside, the sword bereaves; <br/>   inside, there is only death. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_21">  <sup>21</sup>“People have heard my groaning, <br/>   but there is no one to comfort me. <br/>  All my enemies have heard of my distress; <br/>   they rejoice at what you have done. <br/>  May you bring the day you have announced <br/>   so they may become like me. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_1_22">  <sup>22</sup>“Let all their wickedness come before you; <br/>   deal with them <br/>  as you have dealt with me <br/>   because of all my sins. <br/>  My groans are many <br/>   and my heart is faint.” <br/><br/></span>
