---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Lamentations 
bookNumber: 25
audio: \Audio\NIV\ca\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1></div>
<span class="verse ca_2_1">  <sup>1</sup>How the Lord has covered Daughter Zion <br/>   with the cloud of his anger<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or How the Lord in his anger / has treated Daughter Zion with contempt">⚓</a> ! <br/>  He has hurled down the splendor of Israel <br/>   from heaven to earth; <br/>  he has not remembered his footstool <br/>   in the day of his anger. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_2">  <sup>2</sup>Without pity the Lord has swallowed up <br/>   all the dwellings of Jacob; <br/>  in his wrath he has torn down <br/>   the strongholds of Daughter Judah. <br/>  He has brought her kingdom and its princes <br/>   down to the ground in dishonor. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_3">  <sup>3</sup>In fierce anger he has cut off <br/>   every horn<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or off / all the strength ; or every king">⚓</a><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="here symbolizes strength.">⚓</a> of Israel. <br/>  He has withdrawn his right hand <br/>   at the approach of the enemy. <br/>  He has burned in Jacob like a flaming fire <br/>   that consumes everything around it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_4">  <sup>4</sup>Like an enemy he has strung his bow; <br/>   his right hand is ready. <br/>  Like a foe he has slain <br/>   all who were pleasing to the eye; <br/>  he has poured out his wrath like fire <br/>   on the tent of Daughter Zion. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_5">  <sup>5</sup>The Lord is like an enemy; <br/>   he has swallowed up Israel. <br/>  He has swallowed up all her palaces <br/>   and destroyed her strongholds. <br/>  He has multiplied mourning and lamentation <br/>   for Daughter Judah. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_6">  <sup>6</sup>He has laid waste his dwelling like a garden; <br/>   he has destroyed his place of meeting. <br/>  The Lord has made Zion forget <br/>   her appointed festivals and her Sabbaths; <br/>  in his fierce anger he has spurned <br/>   both king and priest. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_7">  <sup>7</sup>The Lord has rejected his altar <br/>   and abandoned his sanctuary. <br/>  He has given the walls of her palaces <br/>   into the hands of the enemy; <br/>  they have raised a shout in the house of the Lord<br/>   as on the day of an appointed festival. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_8">  <sup>8</sup>The Lord determined to tear down <br/>   the wall around Daughter Zion. <br/>  He stretched out a measuring line <br/>   and did not withhold his hand from destroying. <br/>  He made ramparts and walls lament; <br/>   together they wasted away. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_9">  <sup>9</sup>Her gates have sunk into the ground; <br/>   their bars he has broken and destroyed. <br/>  Her king and her princes are exiled among the nations, <br/>   the law is no more, <br/>  and her prophets no longer find <br/>   visions from the Lord. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_10">  <sup>10</sup>The elders of Daughter Zion <br/>   sit on the ground in silence; <br/>  they have sprinkled dust on their heads <br/>   and put on sackcloth. <br/>  The young women of Jerusalem <br/>   have bowed their heads to the ground. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_11">  <sup>11</sup>My eyes fail from weeping, <br/>   I am in torment within; <br/>  my heart is poured out on the ground <br/>   because my people are destroyed, <br/>  because children and infants faint <br/>   in the streets of the city. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_12">  <sup>12</sup>They say to their mothers, <br/>   “Where is bread and wine?” <br/>  as they faint like the wounded <br/>   in the streets of the city, <br/>  as their lives ebb away <br/>   in their mothers’ arms. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_13">  <sup>13</sup>What can I say for you? <br/>   With what can I compare you, <br/>   Daughter Jerusalem? <br/>  To what can I liken you, <br/>   that I may comfort you, <br/>   Virgin Daughter Zion? <br/>  Your wound is as deep as the sea. <br/>   Who can heal you? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_14">  <sup>14</sup>The visions of your prophets <br/>   were false and worthless; <br/>  they did not expose your sin <br/>   to ward off your captivity. <br/>  The prophecies they gave you <br/>   were false and misleading. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_15">  <sup>15</sup>All who pass your way <br/>   clap their hands at you; <br/>  they scoff and shake their heads <br/>   at Daughter Jerusalem: <br/>  “Is this the city that was called <br/>   the perfection of beauty, <br/>   the joy of the whole earth?” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_16">  <sup>16</sup>All your enemies open their mouths <br/>   wide against you; <br/>  they scoff and gnash their teeth <br/>   and say, “We have swallowed her up. <br/>  This is the day we have waited for; <br/>   we have lived to see it.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_17">  <sup>17</sup>The Lord has done what he planned; <br/>   he has fulfilled his word, <br/>   which he decreed long ago. <br/>  He has overthrown you without pity, <br/>   he has let the enemy gloat over you, <br/>   he has exalted the horn<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="here symbolizes strength.">⚓</a> of your foes. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_18">  <sup>18</sup>The hearts of the people <br/>   cry out to the Lord. <br/>  You walls of Daughter Zion, <br/>   let your tears flow like a river <br/>   day and night; <br/>  give yourself no relief, <br/>   your eyes no rest. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_19">  <sup>19</sup>Arise, cry out in the night, <br/>   as the watches of the night begin; <br/>  pour out your heart like water <br/>   in the presence of the Lord. <br/>  Lift up your hands to him <br/>   for the lives of your children, <br/>  who faint from hunger <br/>   at every street corner. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_20">  <sup>20</sup>“Look, Lord, and consider: <br/>   Whom have you ever treated like this? <br/>  Should women eat their offspring, <br/>   the children they have cared for? <br/>  Should priest and prophet be killed <br/>   in the sanctuary of the Lord? <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_21">  <sup>21</sup>“Young and old lie together <br/>   in the dust of the streets; <br/>  my young men and young women <br/>   have fallen by the sword. <br/>  You have slain them in the day of your anger; <br/>   you have slaughtered them without pity. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_2_22">  <sup>22</sup>“As you summon to a feast day, <br/>   so you summoned against me terrors on every side. <br/>  In the day of the Lord’s anger <br/>   no one escaped or survived; <br/>  those I cared for and reared <br/>   my enemy has destroyed.” <br/><br/></span>
