---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Lamentations 
bookNumber: 25
audio: \Audio\NIV\ca\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1></div>
<span class="verse ca_4_1">  <sup>1</sup>How the gold has lost its luster, <br/>   the fine gold become dull! <br/>  The sacred gems are scattered <br/>   at every street corner. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_2">  <sup>2</sup>How the precious children of Zion, <br/>   once worth their weight in gold, <br/>  are now considered as pots of clay, <br/>   the work of a potter’s hands! <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_3">  <sup>3</sup>Even jackals offer their breasts <br/>   to nurse their young, <br/>  but my people have become heartless <br/>   like ostriches in the desert. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_4">  <sup>4</sup>Because of thirst the infant’s tongue <br/>   sticks to the roof of its mouth; <br/>  the children beg for bread, <br/>   but no one gives it to them. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_5">  <sup>5</sup>Those who once ate delicacies <br/>   are destitute in the streets. <br/>  Those brought up in royal purple <br/>   now lie on ash heaps. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_6">  <sup>6</sup>The punishment of my people <br/>   is greater than that of Sodom, <br/>  which was overthrown in a moment <br/>   without a hand turned to help her. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_7">  <sup>7</sup>Their princes were brighter than snow <br/>   and whiter than milk, <br/>  their bodies more ruddy than rubies, <br/>   their appearance like lapis lazuli. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_8">  <sup>8</sup>But now they are blacker than soot; <br/>   they are not recognized in the streets. <br/>  Their skin has shriveled on their bones; <br/>   it has become as dry as a stick. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_9">  <sup>9</sup>Those killed by the sword are better off <br/>   than those who die of famine; <br/>  racked with hunger, they waste away <br/>   for lack of food from the field. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_10">  <sup>10</sup>With their own hands compassionate women <br/>   have cooked their own children, <br/>  who became their food <br/>   when my people were destroyed. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_11">  <sup>11</sup>The Lord has given full vent to his wrath; <br/>   he has poured out his fierce anger. <br/>  He kindled a fire in Zion <br/>   that consumed her foundations. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_12">  <sup>12</sup>The kings of the earth did not believe, <br/>   nor did any of the peoples of the world, <br/>  that enemies and foes could enter <br/>   the gates of Jerusalem. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_13">  <sup>13</sup>But it happened because of the sins of her prophets <br/>   and the iniquities of her priests, <br/>  who shed within her <br/>   the blood of the righteous. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_14">  <sup>14</sup>Now they grope through the streets <br/>   as if they were blind. <br/>  They are so defiled with blood <br/>   that no one dares to touch their garments. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_15">  <sup>15</sup>“Go away! You are unclean!” people cry to them. <br/>   “Away! Away! Don’t touch us!” <br/>  When they flee and wander about, <br/>   people among the nations say, <br/>   “They can stay here no longer.” <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_16">  <sup>16</sup>The Lord himself has scattered them; <br/>   he no longer watches over them. <br/>  The priests are shown no honor, <br/>   the elders no favor. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_17">  <sup>17</sup>Moreover, our eyes failed, <br/>   looking in vain for help; <br/>  from our towers we watched <br/>   for a nation that could not save us. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_18">  <sup>18</sup>People stalked us at every step, <br/>   so we could not walk in our streets. <br/>  Our end was near, our days were numbered, <br/>   for our end had come. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_19">  <sup>19</sup>Our pursuers were swifter <br/>   than eagles in the sky; <br/>  they chased us over the mountains <br/>   and lay in wait for us in the desert. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_20">  <sup>20</sup>The Lord’s anointed, our very life breath, <br/>   was caught in their traps. <br/>  We thought that under his shadow <br/>   we would live among the nations. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_21">  <sup>21</sup>Rejoice and be glad, Daughter Edom, <br/>   you who live in the land of Uz. <br/>  But to you also the cup will be passed; <br/>   you will be drunk and stripped naked. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ca_4_22">  <sup>22</sup>Your punishment will end, Daughter Zion; <br/>   he will not prolong your exile. <br/>  But he will punish your sin, Daughter Edom, <br/>   and expose your wickedness. <br/><br/></span>
