---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>David Hears of Saul’s Death </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>After the death of Saul, David returned from striking down the Amalekites and stayed in Ziklag two days. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_2"><sup>2</sup>On the third day a man arrived from Saul’s camp with his clothes torn and dust on his head. When he came to David, he fell to the ground to pay him honor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>“Where have you come from?” David asked him. <br/> He answered, “I have escaped from the Israelite camp.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>“What happened?” David asked. “Tell me.” <br/> “The men fled from the battle,” he replied. “Many of them fell and died. And Saul and his son Jonathan are dead.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then David said to the young man who brought him the report, “How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>“I happened to be on Mount Gilboa,” the young man said, “and there was Saul, leaning on his spear, with the chariots and their drivers in hot pursuit. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_7"><sup>7</sup>When he turned around and saw me, he called out to me, and I said, ‘What can I do?’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>“He asked me, ‘Who are you?’ <br/> “ ‘An Amalekite,’ I answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Then he said to me, ‘Stand here by me and kill me! I’m in the throes of death, but I’m still alive.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>“So I stood beside him and killed him, because I knew that after he had fallen he could not survive. And I took the crown that was on his head and the band on his arm and have brought them here to my lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then David and all the men with him took hold of their clothes and tore them. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_12"><sup>12</sup>They mourned and wept and fasted till evening for Saul and his son Jonathan, and for the army of the Lord and for the nation of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>David said to the young man who brought him the report, “Where are you from?” <br/> “I am the son of a foreigner, an Amalekite,” he answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_14"> <sup>14</sup>David asked him, “Why weren’t you afraid to lift your hand to destroy the Lord’s anointed?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then David called one of his men and said, “Go, strike him down!” So he struck him down, and he died. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_16"><sup>16</sup>For David had said to him, “Your blood be on your own head. Your own mouth testified against you when you said, ‘I killed the Lord’s anointed.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David’s Lament for Saul and Jonathan </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>David took up this lament concerning Saul and his son Jonathan, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_18"><sup>18</sup>and he ordered that the people of Judah be taught this lament of the bow (it is written in the Book of Jashar): <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_19">  <sup>19</sup>“A gazelle<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="here symbolizes a human dignitary.">⚓</a> lies slain on your heights, Israel. <br/>   How the mighty have fallen! <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_20">  <sup>20</sup>“Tell it not in Gath, <br/>   proclaim it not in the streets of Ashkelon, <br/>  lest the daughters of the Philistines be glad, <br/>   lest the daughters of the uncircumcised rejoice. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_21">  <sup>21</sup>“Mountains of Gilboa, <br/>   may you have neither dew nor rain, <br/>   may no showers fall on your terraced fields.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or / nor fields that yield grain for offerings">⚓</a><br/>  For there the shield of the mighty was despised, <br/>   the shield of Saul—no longer rubbed with oil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_22">  <sup>22</sup>“From the blood of the slain, <br/>   from the flesh of the mighty, <br/>  the bow of Jonathan did not turn back, <br/>   the sword of Saul did not return unsatisfied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_23">  <sup>23</sup>Saul and Jonathan— <br/>   in life they were loved and admired, <br/>   and in death they were not parted. <br/>  They were swifter than eagles, <br/>   they were stronger than lions. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_24">  <sup>24</sup>“Daughters of Israel, <br/>   weep for Saul, <br/>  who clothed you in scarlet and finery, <br/>   who adorned your garments with ornaments of gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_25">  <sup>25</sup>“How the mighty have fallen in battle! <br/>   Jonathan lies slain on your heights. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_26">  <sup>26</sup>I grieve for you, Jonathan my brother; <br/>   you were very dear to me. <br/>  Your love for me was wonderful, <br/>   more wonderful than that of women. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_1_27">  <sup>27</sup>“How the mighty have fallen! <br/>   The weapons of war have perished!” <br/></span>
