---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>David Becomes King Over Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>All the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, “We are your own flesh and blood. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_2"><sup>2</sup>In the past, while Saul was king over us, you were the one who led Israel on their military campaigns. And the Lord said to you, ‘You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will become their ruler.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_3"> <sup>3</sup>When all the elders of Israel had come to King David at Hebron, the king made a covenant with them at Hebron before the Lord, and they anointed David king over Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_4"> <sup>4</sup>David was thirty years old when he became king, and he reigned forty years. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_5"><sup>5</sup>In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned over all Israel and Judah thirty-three years. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David Conquers Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>The king and his men marched to Jerusalem to attack the Jebusites, who lived there. The Jebusites said to David, “You will not get in here; even the blind and the lame can ward you off.” They thought, “David cannot get in here.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_7"><sup>7</sup>Nevertheless, David captured the fortress of Zion—which is the City of David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_8"> <sup>8</sup>On that day David had said, “Anyone who conquers the Jebusites will have to use the water shaft to reach those ‘lame and blind’ who are David’s enemies.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or are hated by David">⚓</a> ” That is why they say, “The ‘blind and lame’ will not enter the palace.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_9"> <sup>9</sup>David then took up residence in the fortress and called it the City of David. He built up the area around it, from the terraces<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Millo">⚓</a> inward. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_10"><sup>10</sup>And he became more and more powerful, because the Lord God Almighty was with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_11"> <sup>11</sup>Now Hiram king of Tyre sent envoys to David, along with cedar logs and carpenters and stonemasons, and they built a palace for David. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_12"><sup>12</sup>Then David knew that the Lord had established him as king over Israel and had exalted his kingdom for the sake of his people Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>After he left Hebron, David took more concubines and wives in Jerusalem, and more sons and daughters were born to him. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_14"><sup>14</sup>These are the names of the children born to him there: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_15"><sup>15</sup>Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_16"><sup>16</sup>Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David Defeats the Philistines </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_17"> <sup>17</sup>When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over Israel, they went up in full force to search for him, but David heard about it and went down to the stronghold. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_18"><sup>18</sup>Now the Philistines had come and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim; </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_19"><sup>19</sup>so David inquired of the Lord, “Shall I go and attack the Philistines? Will you deliver them into my hands?” <br/> The Lord answered him, “Go, for I will surely deliver the Philistines into your hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_20"> <sup>20</sup>So David went to Baal Perazim, and there he defeated them. He said, “As waters break out, the Lord has broken out against my enemies before me.” So that place was called Baal Perazim.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means the lord who breaks out.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_21"><sup>21</sup>The Philistines abandoned their idols there, and David and his men carried them off. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_22"> <sup>22</sup>Once more the Philistines came up and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim; </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_23"><sup>23</sup>so David inquired of the Lord, and he answered, “Do not go straight up, but circle around behind them and attack them in front of the poplar trees. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_24"><sup>24</sup>As soon as you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the poplar trees, move quickly, because that will mean the Lord has gone out in front of you to strike the Philistine army.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_5_25"><sup>25</sup>So David did as the Lord commanded him, and he struck down the Philistines all the way from Gibeon<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint (see also 1 Chron. 14:16); Hebrew Geba">⚓</a> to Gezer. <br/></span>
