---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>The Ark Brought to Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>David again brought together all the able young men of Israel—thirty thousand. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_2"><sup>2</sup>He and all his men went to Baalah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Kiriath Jearim (see 1 Chron. 13:6)">⚓</a> in Judah to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the Name,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate do not have the Name.">⚓</a> the name of the Lord Almighty, who is enthroned between the cherubim on the ark. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_3"><sup>3</sup>They set the ark of God on a new cart and brought it from the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill. Uzzah and Ahio, sons of Abinadab, were guiding the new cart </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_4"><sup>4</sup>with the ark of God on it,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls and some Septuagint manuscripts; Masoretic Text cart 4and they brought it with the ark of God from the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill">⚓</a> and Ahio was walking in front of it. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_5"><sup>5</sup>David and all Israel were celebrating with all their might before the Lord, with castanets,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint (see also 1 Chron. 13:8) songs">⚓</a> harps, lyres, timbrels, sistrums and cymbals. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>When they came to the threshing floor of Nakon, Uzzah reached out and took hold of the ark of God, because the oxen stumbled. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_7"><sup>7</sup>The Lord’s anger burned against Uzzah because of his irreverent act; therefore God struck him down, and he died there beside the ark of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then David was angry because the Lord’s wrath had broken out against Uzzah, and to this day that place is called Perez Uzzah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means outbreak against Uzzah.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, “How can the ark of the Lord ever come to me?” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_10"><sup>10</sup>He was not willing to take the ark of the Lord to be with him in the City of David. Instead, he took it to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_11"><sup>11</sup>The ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite for three months, and the Lord blessed him and his entire household. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>Now King David was told, “The Lord has blessed the household of Obed-Edom and everything he has, because of the ark of God.” So David went to bring up the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom to the City of David with rejoicing. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_13"><sup>13</sup>When those who were carrying the ark of the Lord had taken six steps, he sacrificed a bull and a fattened calf. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_14"><sup>14</sup>Wearing a linen ephod, David was dancing before the Lord with all his might, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_15"><sup>15</sup>while he and all Israel were bringing up the ark of the Lord with shouts and the sound of trumpets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>As the ark of the Lord was entering the City of David, Michal daughter of Saul watched from a window. And when she saw King David leaping and dancing before the Lord, she despised him in her heart. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>They brought the ark of the Lord and set it in its place inside the tent that David had pitched for it, and David sacrificed burnt offerings and fellowship offerings before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_18"><sup>18</sup>After he had finished sacrificing the burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord Almighty. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_19"><sup>19</sup>Then he gave a loaf of bread, a cake of dates and a cake of raisins to each person in the whole crowd of Israelites, both men and women. And all the people went to their homes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_20"> <sup>20</sup>When David returned home to bless his household, Michal daughter of Saul came out to meet him and said, “How the king of Israel has distinguished himself today, going around half-naked in full view of the slave girls of his servants as any vulgar fellow would!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_21"> <sup>21</sup>David said to Michal, “It was before the Lord, who chose me rather than your father or anyone from his house when he appointed me ruler over the Lord’s people Israel—I will celebrate before the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_22"><sup>22</sup>I will become even more undignified than this, and I will be humiliated in my own eyes. But by these slave girls you spoke of, I will be held in honor.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_6_23"> <sup>23</sup>And Michal daughter of Saul had no children to the day of her death. <br/></span>
