---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>God’s Promise to David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>After the king was settled in his palace and the Lord had given him rest from all his enemies around him, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_2"><sup>2</sup>he said to Nathan the prophet, “Here I am, living in a house of cedar, while the ark of God remains in a tent.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_3"> <sup>3</sup>Nathan replied to the king, “Whatever you have in mind, go ahead and do it, for the Lord is with you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>But that night the word of the Lord came to Nathan, saying: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_5"> <sup>5</sup>“Go and tell my servant David, ‘This is what the Lord says: Are you the one to build me a house to dwell in? </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_6"><sup>6</sup>I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought the Israelites up out of Egypt to this day. I have been moving from place to place with a tent as my dwelling. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_7"><sup>7</sup>Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of their rulers whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, “Why have you not built me a house of cedar?” ’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Now then, tell my servant David, ‘This is what the Lord Almighty says: I took you from the pasture, from tending the flock, and appointed you ruler over my people Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_9"><sup>9</sup>I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I will make your name great, like the names of the greatest men on earth. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_10"><sup>10</sup>And I will provide a place for my people Israel and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer be disturbed. Wicked people will not oppress them anymore, as they did at the beginning </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_11"><sup>11</sup>and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judges">⚓</a> over my people Israel. I will also give you rest from all your enemies. <br/> “ ‘The Lord declares to you that the Lord himself will establish a house for you: </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_12"><sup>12</sup>When your days are over and you rest with your ancestors, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, your own flesh and blood, and I will establish his kingdom. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_13"><sup>13</sup>He is the one who will build a house for my Name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_14"><sup>14</sup>I will be his father, and he will be my son. When he does wrong, I will punish him with a rod wielded by men, with floggings inflicted by human hands. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_15"><sup>15</sup>But my love will never be taken away from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_16"><sup>16</sup>Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint; most Hebrew manuscripts you">⚓</a> ; your throne will be established forever.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_17"> <sup>17</sup>Nathan reported to David all the words of this entire revelation. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David’s Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then King David went in and sat before the Lord, and he said: <br/> “Who am I, Sovereign Lord, and what is my family, that you have brought me this far? </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_19"><sup>19</sup>And as if this were not enough in your sight, Sovereign Lord, you have also spoken about the future of the house of your servant—and this decree, Sovereign Lord, is for a mere human!<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or for the human race">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_20"> <sup>20</sup>“What more can David say to you? For you know your servant, Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_21"><sup>21</sup>For the sake of your word and according to your will, you have done this great thing and made it known to your servant. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_22"> <sup>22</sup>“How great you are, Sovereign Lord! There is no one like you, and there is no God but you, as we have heard with our own ears. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_23"><sup>23</sup>And who is like your people Israel—the one nation on earth that God went out to redeem as a people for himself, and to make a name for himself, and to perform great and awesome wonders by driving out nations and their gods from before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt?<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Septuagint and 1 Chron. 17:21; Hebrew wonders for your land and before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt, from the nations and their gods .">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_24"><sup>24</sup>You have established your people Israel as your very own forever, and you, Lord, have become their God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_25"> <sup>25</sup>“And now, Lord God, keep forever the promise you have made concerning your servant and his house. Do as you promised, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_26"><sup>26</sup>so that your name will be great forever. Then people will say, ‘The Lord Almighty is God over Israel!’ And the house of your servant David will be established in your sight. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_27"> <sup>27</sup>“Lord Almighty, God of Israel, you have revealed this to your servant, saying, ‘I will build a house for you.’ So your servant has found courage to pray this prayer to you. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_28"><sup>28</sup>Sovereign Lord, you are God! Your covenant is trustworthy, and you have promised these good things to your servant. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_7_29"><sup>29</sup>Now be pleased to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever in your sight; for you, Sovereign Lord, have spoken, and with your blessing the house of your servant will be blessed forever.” <br/></span>
