---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>David and Mephibosheth </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>David asked, “Is there anyone still left of the house of Saul to whom I can show kindness for Jonathan’s sake?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_2"> <sup>2</sup>Now there was a servant of Saul’s household named Ziba. They summoned him to appear before David, and the king said to him, “Are you Ziba?” <br/> “At your service,” he replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_3"> <sup>3</sup>The king asked, “Is there no one still alive from the house of Saul to whom I can show God’s kindness?” <br/> Ziba answered the king, “There is still a son of Jonathan; he is lame in both feet.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_4"> <sup>4</sup>“Where is he?” the king asked. <br/> Ziba answered, “He is at the house of Makir son of Ammiel in Lo Debar.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_5"> <sup>5</sup>So King David had him brought from Lo Debar, from the house of Makir son of Ammiel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_6"> <sup>6</sup>When Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, he bowed down to pay him honor. <br/> David said, “Mephibosheth!” <br/> “At your service,” he replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Don’t be afraid,” David said to him, “for I will surely show you kindness for the sake of your father Jonathan. I will restore to you all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul, and you will always eat at my table.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_8"> <sup>8</sup>Mephibosheth bowed down and said, “What is your servant, that you should notice a dead dog like me?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then the king summoned Ziba, Saul’s steward, and said to him, “I have given your master’s grandson everything that belonged to Saul and his family. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_10"><sup>10</sup>You and your sons and your servants are to farm the land for him and bring in the crops, so that your master’s grandson may be provided for. And Mephibosheth, grandson of your master, will always eat at my table.” (Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then Ziba said to the king, “Your servant will do whatever my lord the king commands his servant to do.” So Mephibosheth ate at David’s<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew my">⚓</a> table like one of the king’s sons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_12"> <sup>12</sup>Mephibosheth had a young son named Mika, and all the members of Ziba’s household were servants of Mephibosheth. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_9_13"><sup>13</sup>And Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, because he always ate at the king’s table; he was lame in both feet. <br/></span>
