---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Nathan Rebukes David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Lord sent Nathan to David. When he came to him, he said, “There were two men in a certain town, one rich and the other poor. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_2"><sup>2</sup>The rich man had a very large number of sheep and cattle, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_3"><sup>3</sup>but the poor man had nothing except one little ewe lamb he had bought. He raised it, and it grew up with him and his children. It shared his food, drank from his cup and even slept in his arms. It was like a daughter to him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_4"> <sup>4</sup>“Now a traveler came to the rich man, but the rich man refrained from taking one of his own sheep or cattle to prepare a meal for the traveler who had come to him. Instead, he took the ewe lamb that belonged to the poor man and prepared it for the one who had come to him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_5"> <sup>5</sup>David burned with anger against the man and said to Nathan, “As surely as the Lord lives, the man who did this must die! </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_6"><sup>6</sup>He must pay for that lamb four times over, because he did such a thing and had no pity.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then Nathan said to David, “You are the man! This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: ‘I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you from the hand of Saul. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_8"><sup>8</sup>I gave your master’s house to you, and your master’s wives into your arms. I gave you all Israel and Judah. And if all this had been too little, I would have given you even more. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_9"><sup>9</sup>Why did you despise the word of the Lord by doing what is evil in his eyes? You struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword and took his wife to be your own. You killed him with the sword of the Ammonites. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_10"><sup>10</sup>Now, therefore, the sword will never depart from your house, because you despised me and took the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your own.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_11"> <sup>11</sup>“This is what the Lord says: ‘Out of your own household I am going to bring calamity on you. Before your very eyes I will take your wives and give them to one who is close to you, and he will sleep with your wives in broad daylight. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_12"><sup>12</sup>You did it in secret, but I will do this thing in broad daylight before all Israel.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then David said to Nathan, “I have sinned against the Lord.” <br/> Nathan replied, “The Lord has taken away your sin. You are not going to die. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_14"><sup>14</sup>But because by doing this you have shown utter contempt for<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="An ancient Hebrew scribal tradition; Masoretic Text for the enemies of">⚓</a> the Lord, the son born to you will die.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_15"> <sup>15</sup>After Nathan had gone home, the Lord struck the child that Uriah’s wife had borne to David, and he became ill. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_16"><sup>16</sup>David pleaded with God for the child. He fasted and spent the nights lying in sackcloth<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint; Masoretic Text does not have in sackcloth .">⚓</a> on the ground. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_17"><sup>17</sup>The elders of his household stood beside him to get him up from the ground, but he refused, and he would not eat any food with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_18"> <sup>18</sup>On the seventh day the child died. David’s attendants were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they thought, “While the child was still living, he wouldn’t listen to us when we spoke to him. How can we now tell him the child is dead? He may do something desperate.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_19"> <sup>19</sup>David noticed that his attendants were whispering among themselves, and he realized the child was dead. “Is the child dead?” he asked. <br/> “Yes,” they replied, “he is dead.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then David got up from the ground. After he had washed, put on lotions and changed his clothes, he went into the house of the Lord and worshiped. Then he went to his own house, and at his request they served him food, and he ate. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_21"> <sup>21</sup>His attendants asked him, “Why are you acting this way? While the child was alive, you fasted and wept, but now that the child is dead, you get up and eat!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_22"> <sup>22</sup>He answered, “While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept. I thought, ‘Who knows? The Lord may be gracious to me and let the child live.’ </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_23"><sup>23</sup>But now that he is dead, why should I go on fasting? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then David comforted his wife Bathsheba, and he went to her and made love to her. She gave birth to a son, and they named him Solomon. The Lord loved him; </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_25"><sup>25</sup>and because the Lord loved him, he sent word through Nathan the prophet to name him Jedidiah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means loved by the Lord.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_26"> <sup>26</sup>Meanwhile Joab fought against Rabbah of the Ammonites and captured the royal citadel. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_27"><sup>27</sup>Joab then sent messengers to David, saying, “I have fought against Rabbah and taken its water supply. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_28"><sup>28</sup>Now muster the rest of the troops and besiege the city and capture it. Otherwise I will take the city, and it will be named after me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_29"> <sup>29</sup>So David mustered the entire army and went to Rabbah, and attacked and captured it. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_30"><sup>30</sup>David took the crown from their king’s<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or from Milkom’s (that is, Molek’s)">⚓</a> head, and it was placed on his own head. It weighed a talent<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 75 pounds or about 34 kilograms">⚓</a> of gold, and it was set with precious stones. David took a great quantity of plunder from the city </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_12_31"><sup>31</sup>and brought out the people who were there, consigning them to labor with saws and with iron picks and axes, and he made them work at brickmaking.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this clause is uncertain.">⚓</a> David did this to all the Ammonite towns. Then he and his entire army returned to Jerusalem. <br/></span>
