---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Amnon and Tamar </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the course of time, Amnon son of David fell in love with Tamar, the beautiful sister of Absalom son of David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_2"> <sup>2</sup>Amnon became so obsessed with his sister Tamar that he made himself ill. She was a virgin, and it seemed impossible for him to do anything to her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now Amnon had an adviser named Jonadab son of Shimeah, David’s brother. Jonadab was a very shrewd man. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_4"><sup>4</sup>He asked Amnon, “Why do you, the king’s son, look so haggard morning after morning? Won’t you tell me?” <br/> Amnon said to him, “I’m in love with Tamar, my brother Absalom’s sister.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_5"> <sup>5</sup>“Go to bed and pretend to be ill,” Jonadab said. “When your father comes to see you, say to him, ‘I would like my sister Tamar to come and give me something to eat. Let her prepare the food in my sight so I may watch her and then eat it from her hand.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_6"> <sup>6</sup>So Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill. When the king came to see him, Amnon said to him, “I would like my sister Tamar to come and make some special bread in my sight, so I may eat from her hand.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_7"> <sup>7</sup>David sent word to Tamar at the palace: “Go to the house of your brother Amnon and prepare some food for him.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_8"><sup>8</sup>So Tamar went to the house of her brother Amnon, who was lying down. She took some dough, kneaded it, made the bread in his sight and baked it. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_9"><sup>9</sup>Then she took the pan and served him the bread, but he refused to eat. <br/> “Send everyone out of here,” Amnon said. So everyone left him. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_10"><sup>10</sup>Then Amnon said to Tamar, “Bring the food here into my bedroom so I may eat from your hand.” And Tamar took the bread she had prepared and brought it to her brother Amnon in his bedroom. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_11"><sup>11</sup>But when she took it to him to eat, he grabbed her and said, “Come to bed with me, my sister.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_12"> <sup>12</sup>“No, my brother!” she said to him. “Don’t force me! Such a thing should not be done in Israel! Don’t do this wicked thing. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_13"><sup>13</sup>What about me? Where could I get rid of my disgrace? And what about you? You would be like one of the wicked fools in Israel. Please speak to the king; he will not keep me from being married to you.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_14"><sup>14</sup>But he refused to listen to her, and since he was stronger than she, he raped her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then Amnon hated her with intense hatred. In fact, he hated her more than he had loved her. Amnon said to her, “Get up and get out!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_16"> <sup>16</sup>“No!” she said to him. “Sending me away would be a greater wrong than what you have already done to me.” <br/> But he refused to listen to her. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_17"><sup>17</sup>He called his personal servant and said, “Get this woman out of my sight and bolt the door after her.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_18"><sup>18</sup>So his servant put her out and bolted the door after her. She was wearing an ornate<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain; also in verse 19.">⚓</a> robe, for this was the kind of garment the virgin daughters of the king wore. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_19"><sup>19</sup>Tamar put ashes on her head and tore the ornate robe she was wearing. She put her hands on her head and went away, weeping aloud as she went. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_20"> <sup>20</sup>Her brother Absalom said to her, “Has that Amnon, your brother, been with you? Be quiet for now, my sister; he is your brother. Don’t take this thing to heart.” And Tamar lived in her brother Absalom’s house, a desolate woman. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_21"> <sup>21</sup>When King David heard all this, he was furious. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_22"><sup>22</sup>And Absalom never said a word to Amnon, either good or bad; he hated Amnon because he had disgraced his sister Tamar. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Absalom Kills Amnon </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_23"> <sup>23</sup>Two years later, when Absalom’s sheepshearers were at Baal Hazor near the border of Ephraim, he invited all the king’s sons to come there. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_24"><sup>24</sup>Absalom went to the king and said, “Your servant has had shearers come. Will the king and his attendants please join me?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_25"> <sup>25</sup>“No, my son,” the king replied. “All of us should not go; we would only be a burden to you.” Although Absalom urged him, he still refused to go but gave him his blessing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then Absalom said, “If not, please let my brother Amnon come with us.” <br/> The king asked him, “Why should he go with you?” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_27"><sup>27</sup>But Absalom urged him, so he sent with him Amnon and the rest of the king’s sons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_28"> <sup>28</sup>Absalom ordered his men, “Listen! When Amnon is in high spirits from drinking wine and I say to you, ‘Strike Amnon down,’ then kill him. Don’t be afraid. Haven’t I given you this order? Be strong and brave.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_29"><sup>29</sup>So Absalom’s men did to Amnon what Absalom had ordered. Then all the king’s sons got up, mounted their mules and fled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_30"> <sup>30</sup>While they were on their way, the report came to David: “Absalom has struck down all the king’s sons; not one of them is left.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_31"><sup>31</sup>The king stood up, tore his clothes and lay down on the ground; and all his attendants stood by with their clothes torn. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_32"> <sup>32</sup>But Jonadab son of Shimeah, David’s brother, said, “My lord should not think that they killed all the princes; only Amnon is dead. This has been Absalom’s express intention ever since the day Amnon raped his sister Tamar. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_33"><sup>33</sup>My lord the king should not be concerned about the report that all the king’s sons are dead. Only Amnon is dead.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_34"> <sup>34</sup>Meanwhile, Absalom had fled. <br/> Now the man standing watch looked up and saw many people on the road west of him, coming down the side of the hill. The watchman went and told the king, “I see men in the direction of Horonaim, on the side of the hill.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew does not have this sentence.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_35"> <sup>35</sup>Jonadab said to the king, “See, the king’s sons have come; it has happened just as your servant said.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_36"> <sup>36</sup>As he finished speaking, the king’s sons came in, wailing loudly. The king, too, and all his attendants wept very bitterly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_37"> <sup>37</sup>Absalom fled and went to Talmai son of Ammihud, the king of Geshur. But King David mourned many days for his son. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_38"> <sup>38</sup>After Absalom fled and went to Geshur, he stayed there three years. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_13_39"><sup>39</sup>And King David longed to go to Absalom, for he was consoled concerning Amnon’s death. <br/></span>
