---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>David mustered the men who were with him and appointed over them commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_2"><sup>2</sup>David sent out his troops, a third under the command of Joab, a third under Joab’s brother Abishai son of Zeruiah, and a third under Ittai the Gittite. The king told the troops, “I myself will surely march out with you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_3"> <sup>3</sup>But the men said, “You must not go out; if we are forced to flee, they won’t care about us. Even if half of us die, they won’t care; but you are worth ten thousand of us.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Two Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Vulgate; most Hebrew manuscripts care; for now there are ten thousand like us">⚓</a> It would be better now for you to give us support from the city.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_4"> <sup>4</sup>The king answered, “I will do whatever seems best to you.” <br/> So the king stood beside the gate while all his men marched out in units of hundreds and of thousands. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_5"><sup>5</sup>The king commanded Joab, Abishai and Ittai, “Be gentle with the young man Absalom for my sake.” And all the troops heard the king giving orders concerning Absalom to each of the commanders. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_6"> <sup>6</sup>David’s army marched out of the city to fight Israel, and the battle took place in the forest of Ephraim. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_7"><sup>7</sup>There Israel’s troops were routed by David’s men, and the casualties that day were great—twenty thousand men. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_8"><sup>8</sup>The battle spread out over the whole countryside, and the forest swallowed up more men that day than the sword. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>Now Absalom happened to meet David’s men. He was riding his mule, and as the mule went under the thick branches of a large oak, Absalom’s hair got caught in the tree. He was left hanging in midair, while the mule he was riding kept on going. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_10"> <sup>10</sup>When one of the men saw what had happened, he told Joab, “I just saw Absalom hanging in an oak tree.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_11"> <sup>11</sup>Joab said to the man who had told him this, “What! You saw him? Why didn’t you strike him to the ground right there? Then I would have had to give you ten shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 4 ounces or about 115 grams">⚓</a> of silver and a warrior’s belt.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_12"> <sup>12</sup>But the man replied, “Even if a thousand shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 25 pounds or about 12 kilograms">⚓</a> were weighed out into my hands, I would not lay a hand on the king’s son. In our hearing the king commanded you and Abishai and Ittai, ‘Protect the young man Absalom for my sake.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A few Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac; most Hebrew manuscripts may be translated Absalom, whoever you may be.">⚓</a> ’ </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_13"><sup>13</sup>And if I had put my life in jeopardy<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Otherwise, if I had acted treacherously toward him">⚓</a> —and nothing is hidden from the king—you would have kept your distance from me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_14"> <sup>14</sup>Joab said, “I’m not going to wait like this for you.” So he took three javelins in his hand and plunged them into Absalom’s heart while Absalom was still alive in the oak tree. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_15"><sup>15</sup>And ten of Joab’s armor-bearers surrounded Absalom, struck him and killed him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then Joab sounded the trumpet, and the troops stopped pursuing Israel, for Joab halted them. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_17"><sup>17</sup>They took Absalom, threw him into a big pit in the forest and piled up a large heap of rocks over him. Meanwhile, all the Israelites fled to their homes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_18"> <sup>18</sup>During his lifetime Absalom had taken a pillar and erected it in the King’s Valley as a monument to himself, for he thought, “I have no son to carry on the memory of my name.” He named the pillar after himself, and it is called Absalom’s Monument to this day. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David Mourns </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_19"> <sup>19</sup>Now Ahimaaz son of Zadok said, “Let me run and take the news to the king that the Lord has vindicated him by delivering him from the hand of his enemies.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_20"> <sup>20</sup>“You are not the one to take the news today,” Joab told him. “You may take the news another time, but you must not do so today, because the king’s son is dead.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then Joab said to a Cushite, “Go, tell the king what you have seen.” The Cushite bowed down before Joab and ran off. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_22"> <sup>22</sup>Ahimaaz son of Zadok again said to Joab, “Come what may, please let me run behind the Cushite.” <br/> But Joab replied, “My son, why do you want to go? You don’t have any news that will bring you a reward.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_23"> <sup>23</sup>He said, “Come what may, I want to run.” <br/> So Joab said, “Run!” Then Ahimaaz ran by way of the plain<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the plain of the Jordan">⚓</a> and outran the Cushite. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_24"> <sup>24</sup>While David was sitting between the inner and outer gates, the watchman went up to the roof of the gateway by the wall. As he looked out, he saw a man running alone. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_25"><sup>25</sup>The watchman called out to the king and reported it. <br/> The king said, “If he is alone, he must have good news.” And the runner came closer and closer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_26"> <sup>26</sup>Then the watchman saw another runner, and he called down to the gatekeeper, “Look, another man running alone!” <br/> The king said, “He must be bringing good news, too.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_27"> <sup>27</sup>The watchman said, “It seems to me that the first one runs like Ahimaaz son of Zadok.” <br/> “He’s a good man,” the king said. “He comes with good news.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then Ahimaaz called out to the king, “All is well!” He bowed down before the king with his face to the ground and said, “Praise be to the Lord your God! He has delivered up those who lifted their hands against my lord the king.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_29"> <sup>29</sup>The king asked, “Is the young man Absalom safe?” <br/> Ahimaaz answered, “I saw great confusion just as Joab was about to send the king’s servant and me, your servant, but I don’t know what it was.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_30"> <sup>30</sup>The king said, “Stand aside and wait here.” So he stepped aside and stood there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_31"> <sup>31</sup>Then the Cushite arrived and said, “My lord the king, hear the good news! The Lord has vindicated you today by delivering you from the hand of all who rose up against you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_32"> <sup>32</sup>The king asked the Cushite, “Is the young man Absalom safe?” <br/> The Cushite replied, “May the enemies of my lord the king and all who rise up to harm you be like that young man.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_18_33"> <sup>33</sup>The king was shaken. He went up to the room over the gateway and wept. As he went, he said: “O my son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! If only I had died instead of you—O Absalom, my son, my son!”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts this verse (18:33) is numbered 19:1.">⚓</a><br/></span>
