---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>Sheba Rebels Against David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now a troublemaker named Sheba son of Bikri, a Benjamite, happened to be there. He sounded the trumpet and shouted, <br/>  “We have no share in David, <br/>   no part in Jesse’s son! <br/>  Every man to his tent, Israel!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_2"> <sup>2</sup>So all the men of Israel deserted David to follow Sheba son of Bikri. But the men of Judah stayed by their king all the way from the Jordan to Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_3"> <sup>3</sup>When David returned to his palace in Jerusalem, he took the ten concubines he had left to take care of the palace and put them in a house under guard. He provided for them but had no sexual relations with them. They were kept in confinement till the day of their death, living as widows. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then the king said to Amasa, “Summon the men of Judah to come to me within three days, and be here yourself.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_5"><sup>5</sup>But when Amasa went to summon Judah, he took longer than the time the king had set for him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_6"> <sup>6</sup>David said to Abishai, “Now Sheba son of Bikri will do us more harm than Absalom did. Take your master’s men and pursue him, or he will find fortified cities and escape from us.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and do us serious injury">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_7"><sup>7</sup>So Joab’s men and the Kerethites and Pelethites and all the mighty warriors went out under the command of Abishai. They marched out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba son of Bikri. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_8"> <sup>8</sup>While they were at the great rock in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Joab was wearing his military tunic, and strapped over it at his waist was a belt with a dagger in its sheath. As he stepped forward, it dropped out of its sheath. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_9"> <sup>9</sup>Joab said to Amasa, “How are you, my brother?” Then Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_10"><sup>10</sup>Amasa was not on his guard against the dagger in Joab’s hand, and Joab plunged it into his belly, and his intestines spilled out on the ground. Without being stabbed again, Amasa died. Then Joab and his brother Abishai pursued Sheba son of Bikri. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_11"> <sup>11</sup>One of Joab’s men stood beside Amasa and said, “Whoever favors Joab, and whoever is for David, let him follow Joab!” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_12"><sup>12</sup>Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the middle of the road, and the man saw that all the troops came to a halt there. When he realized that everyone who came up to Amasa stopped, he dragged him from the road into a field and threw a garment over him. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_13"><sup>13</sup>After Amasa had been removed from the road, everyone went on with Joab to pursue Sheba son of Bikri. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_14"> <sup>14</sup>Sheba passed through all the tribes of Israel to Abel Beth Maakah and through the entire region of the Bikrites,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Septuagint and Vulgate; Hebrew Berites .">⚓</a> who gathered together and followed him. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_15"><sup>15</sup>All the troops with Joab came and besieged Sheba in Abel Beth Maakah. They built a siege ramp up to the city, and it stood against the outer fortifications. While they were battering the wall to bring it down, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_16"><sup>16</sup>a wise woman called from the city, “Listen! Listen! Tell Joab to come here so I can speak to him.” </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_17"><sup>17</sup>He went toward her, and she asked, “Are you Joab?” <br/> “I am,” he answered. <br/> She said, “Listen to what your servant has to say.” <br/> “I’m listening,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_18"> <sup>18</sup>She continued, “Long ago they used to say, ‘Get your answer at Abel,’ and that settled it. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_19"><sup>19</sup>We are the peaceful and faithful in Israel. You are trying to destroy a city that is a mother in Israel. Why do you want to swallow up the Lord’s inheritance?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_20"> <sup>20</sup>“Far be it from me!” Joab replied, “Far be it from me to swallow up or destroy! </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_21"><sup>21</sup>That is not the case. A man named Sheba son of Bikri, from the hill country of Ephraim, has lifted up his hand against the king, against David. Hand over this one man, and I’ll withdraw from the city.” <br/> The woman said to Joab, “His head will be thrown to you from the wall.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then the woman went to all the people with her wise advice, and they cut off the head of Sheba son of Bikri and threw it to Joab. So he sounded the trumpet, and his men dispersed from the city, each returning to his home. And Joab went back to the king in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David’s Officials </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_23"> <sup>23</sup>Joab was over Israel’s entire army; Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the Kerethites and Pelethites; </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_24"><sup>24</sup>Adoniram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Kings 4:6 and 5:14); Hebrew Adoram">⚓</a> was in charge of forced labor; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder; </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_25"><sup>25</sup>Sheva was secretary; Zadok and Abiathar were priests; </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_20_26"><sup>26</sup>and Ira the Jairite<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 23:38) Ithrite">⚓</a> was David’s priest. <br/></span>
