---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Samuel 
bookNumber: 10
audio: \Audio\NIV\2sa\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>The Gibeonites Avenged </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>During the reign of David, there was a famine for three successive years; so David sought the face of the Lord. The Lord said, “It is on account of Saul and his blood-stained house; it is because he put the Gibeonites to death.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_2"> <sup>2</sup>The king summoned the Gibeonites and spoke to them. (Now the Gibeonites were not a part of Israel but were survivors of the Amorites; the Israelites had sworn to spare them, but Saul in his zeal for Israel and Judah had tried to annihilate them.) </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_3"><sup>3</sup>David asked the Gibeonites, “What shall I do for you? How shall I make atonement so that you will bless the Lord’s inheritance?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_4"> <sup>4</sup>The Gibeonites answered him, “We have no right to demand silver or gold from Saul or his family, nor do we have the right to put anyone in Israel to death.” <br/> “What do you want me to do for you?” David asked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_5"> <sup>5</sup>They answered the king, “As for the man who destroyed us and plotted against us so that we have been decimated and have no place anywhere in Israel, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_6"><sup>6</sup>let seven of his male descendants be given to us to be killed and their bodies exposed before the Lord at Gibeah of Saul—the Lord’s chosen one.” <br/> So the king said, “I will give them to you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_7"> <sup>7</sup>The king spared Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the oath before the Lord between David and Jonathan son of Saul. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_8"><sup>8</sup>But the king took Armoni and Mephibosheth, the two sons of Aiah’s daughter Rizpah, whom she had borne to Saul, together with the five sons of Saul’s daughter Merab,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Two Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 1 Samuel 18:19); most Hebrew and Septuagint manuscripts Michal">⚓</a> whom she had borne to Adriel son of Barzillai the Meholathite. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_9"><sup>9</sup>He handed them over to the Gibeonites, who killed them and exposed their bodies on a hill before the Lord. All seven of them fell together; they were put to death during the first days of the harvest, just as the barley harvest was beginning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_10"> <sup>10</sup>Rizpah daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it out for herself on a rock. From the beginning of the harvest till the rain poured down from the heavens on the bodies, she did not let the birds touch them by day or the wild animals by night. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_11"><sup>11</sup>When David was told what Aiah’s daughter Rizpah, Saul’s concubine, had done, </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_12"><sup>12</sup>he went and took the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan from the citizens of Jabesh Gilead. (They had stolen their bodies from the public square at Beth Shan, where the Philistines had hung them after they struck Saul down on Gilboa.) </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_13"><sup>13</sup>David brought the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan from there, and the bones of those who had been killed and exposed were gathered up. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_14"> <sup>14</sup>They buried the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan in the tomb of Saul’s father Kish, at Zela in Benjamin, and did everything the king commanded. After that, God answered prayer in behalf of the land. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Wars Against the Philistines </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_15"> <sup>15</sup>Once again there was a battle between the Philistines and Israel. David went down with his men to fight against the Philistines, and he became exhausted. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_16"><sup>16</sup>And Ishbi-Benob, one of the descendants of Rapha, whose bronze spearhead weighed three hundred shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 7 1/2 pounds or about 3.5 kilograms">⚓</a> and who was armed with a new sword, said he would kill David. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_17"><sup>17</sup>But Abishai son of Zeruiah came to David’s rescue; he struck the Philistine down and killed him. Then David’s men swore to him, saying, “Never again will you go out with us to battle, so that the lamp of Israel will not be extinguished.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_18"> <sup>18</sup>In the course of time, there was another battle with the Philistines, at Gob. At that time Sibbekai the Hushathite killed Saph, one of the descendants of Rapha. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_19"> <sup>19</sup>In another battle with the Philistines at Gob, Elhanan son of Jair<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See 1 Chron. 20:5; Hebrew Jaare-Oregim .">⚓</a> the Bethlehemite killed the brother of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See 1 Chron. 20:5; Hebrew does not have the brother of .">⚓</a> Goliath the Gittite, who had a spear with a shaft like a weaver’s rod. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_20"> <sup>20</sup>In still another battle, which took place at Gath, there was a huge man with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot—twenty-four in all. He also was descended from Rapha. </span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_21"><sup>21</sup>When he taunted Israel, Jonathan son of Shimeah, David’s brother, killed him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2sa_21_22"> <sup>22</sup>These four were descendants of Rapha in Gath, and they fell at the hands of David and his men. <br/></span>
