---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Ezekiel’s Inaugural Vision </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>In my thirtieth year, in the fourth month on the fifth day, while I was among the exiles by the Kebar River, the heavens were opened and I saw visions of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>On the fifth of the month—it was the fifth year of the exile of King Jehoiachin— </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_3"><sup>3</sup>the word of the Lord came to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, by the Kebar River in the land of the Babylonians.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a> There the hand of the Lord was on him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>I looked, and I saw a windstorm coming out of the north—an immense cloud with flashing lightning and surrounded by brilliant light. The center of the fire looked like glowing metal, </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_5"><sup>5</sup>and in the fire was what looked like four living creatures. In appearance their form was human, </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_6"><sup>6</sup>but each of them had four faces and four wings. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_7"><sup>7</sup>Their legs were straight; their feet were like those of a calf and gleamed like burnished bronze. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_8"><sup>8</sup>Under their wings on their four sides they had human hands. All four of them had faces and wings, </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_9"><sup>9</sup>and the wings of one touched the wings of another. Each one went straight ahead; they did not turn as they moved. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>Their faces looked like this: Each of the four had the face of a human being, and on the right side each had the face of a lion, and on the left the face of an ox; each also had the face of an eagle. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_11"><sup>11</sup>Such were their faces. They each had two wings spreading out upward, each wing touching that of the creature on either side; and each had two other wings covering its body. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_12"><sup>12</sup>Each one went straight ahead. Wherever the spirit would go, they would go, without turning as they went. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_13"><sup>13</sup>The appearance of the living creatures was like burning coals of fire or like torches. Fire moved back and forth among the creatures; it was bright, and lightning flashed out of it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_14"><sup>14</sup>The creatures sped back and forth like flashes of lightning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>As I looked at the living creatures, I saw a wheel on the ground beside each creature with its four faces. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_16"><sup>16</sup>This was the appearance and structure of the wheels: They sparkled like topaz, and all four looked alike. Each appeared to be made like a wheel intersecting a wheel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_17"><sup>17</sup>As they moved, they would go in any one of the four directions the creatures faced; the wheels did not change direction as the creatures went. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_18"><sup>18</sup>Their rims were high and awesome, and all four rims were full of eyes all around. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>When the living creatures moved, the wheels beside them moved; and when the living creatures rose from the ground, the wheels also rose. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_20"><sup>20</sup>Wherever the spirit would go, they would go, and the wheels would rise along with them, because the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_21"><sup>21</sup>When the creatures moved, they also moved; when the creatures stood still, they also stood still; and when the creatures rose from the ground, the wheels rose along with them, because the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>Spread out above the heads of the living creatures was what looked something like a vault, sparkling like crystal, and awesome. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_23"><sup>23</sup>Under the vault their wings were stretched out one toward the other, and each had two wings covering its body. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_24"><sup>24</sup>When the creatures moved, I heard the sound of their wings, like the roar of rushing waters, like the voice of the Almighty,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Shaddai">⚓</a> like the tumult of an army. When they stood still, they lowered their wings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_1_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then there came a voice from above the vault over their heads as they stood with lowered wings. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_26"><sup>26</sup>Above the vault over their heads was what looked like a throne of lapis lazuli, and high above on the throne was a figure like that of a man. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_27"><sup>27</sup>I saw that from what appeared to be his waist up he looked like glowing metal, as if full of fire, and that from there down he looked like fire; and brilliant light surrounded him. </span>
<span class="verse exe_1_28"><sup>28</sup>Like the appearance of a rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day, so was the radiance around him. <br/> This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. When I saw it, I fell facedown, and I heard the voice of one speaking. <br/></span>
