---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1></div>
<span class="verse exe_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>And he said to me, “Son of man, eat what is before you, eat this scroll; then go and speak to the people of Israel.” </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_2"><sup>2</sup>So I opened my mouth, and he gave me the scroll to eat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_3_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then he said to me, “Son of man, eat this scroll I am giving you and fill your stomach with it.” So I ate it, and it tasted as sweet as honey in my mouth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_3_4"> <sup>4</sup>He then said to me: “Son of man, go now to the people of Israel and speak my words to them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_5"><sup>5</sup>You are not being sent to a people of obscure speech and strange language, but to the people of Israel— </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_6"><sup>6</sup>not to many peoples of obscure speech and strange language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely if I had sent you to them, they would have listened to you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_7"><sup>7</sup>But the people of Israel are not willing to listen to you because they are not willing to listen to me, for all the Israelites are hardened and obstinate. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_8"><sup>8</sup>But I will make you as unyielding and hardened as they are. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_9"><sup>9</sup>I will make your forehead like the hardest stone, harder than flint. Do not be afraid of them or terrified by them, though they are a rebellious people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>And he said to me, “Son of man, listen carefully and take to heart all the words I speak to you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_11"><sup>11</sup>Go now to your people in exile and speak to them. Say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says,’ whether they listen or fail to listen.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me a loud rumbling sound as the glory of the Lord rose from the place where it was standing.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text sound—may the glory of the Lordbe praised from his place">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse exe_3_13"><sup>13</sup>It was the sound of the wings of the living creatures brushing against each other and the sound of the wheels beside them, a loud rumbling sound. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_14"><sup>14</sup>The Spirit then lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness and in the anger of my spirit, with the strong hand of the Lord on me. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_15"><sup>15</sup>I came to the exiles who lived at Tel Aviv near the Kebar River. And there, where they were living, I sat among them for seven days—deeply distressed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ezekiel’s Task as Watchman </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_3_16"> <sup>16</sup>At the end of seven days the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_17"><sup>17</sup>“Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the people of Israel; so hear the word I speak and give them warning from me. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_18"><sup>18</sup>When I say to a wicked person, ‘You will surely die,’ and you do not warn them or speak out to dissuade them from their evil ways in order to save their life, that wicked person will die for<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in ; also in verses 19 and 20">⚓</a> their sin, and I will hold you accountable for their blood. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_19"><sup>19</sup>But if you do warn the wicked person and they do not turn from their wickedness or from their evil ways, they will die for their sin; but you will have saved yourself. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_3_20"> <sup>20</sup>“Again, when a righteous person turns from their righteousness and does evil, and I put a stumbling block before them, they will die. Since you did not warn them, they will die for their sin. The righteous things that person did will not be remembered, and I will hold you accountable for their blood. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_21"><sup>21</sup>But if you do warn the righteous person not to sin and they do not sin, they will surely live because they took warning, and you will have saved yourself.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_3_22"> <sup>22</sup>The hand of the Lord was on me there, and he said to me, “Get up and go out to the plain, and there I will speak to you.” </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_23"><sup>23</sup>So I got up and went out to the plain. And the glory of the Lord was standing there, like the glory I had seen by the Kebar River, and I fell facedown. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_3_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then the Spirit came into me and raised me to my feet. He spoke to me and said: “Go, shut yourself inside your house. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_25"><sup>25</sup>And you, son of man, they will tie with ropes; you will be bound so that you cannot go out among the people. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_26"><sup>26</sup>I will make your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth so that you will be silent and unable to rebuke them, for they are a rebellious people. </span>
<span class="verse exe_3_27"><sup>27</sup>But when I speak to you, I will open your mouth and you shall say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says.’ Whoever will listen let them listen, and whoever will refuse let them refuse; for they are a rebellious people. <br/></span>
