---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>The End Has Come </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_7_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, this is what the Sovereign Lord says to the land of Israel: <br/>  “ ‘The end! The end has come <br/>   upon the four corners of the land! <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_3">  <sup>3</sup>The end is now upon you, <br/>   and I will unleash my anger against you. <br/>  I will judge you according to your conduct <br/>   and repay you for all your detestable practices. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_4">  <sup>4</sup>I will not look on you with pity; <br/>   I will not spare you. <br/>  I will surely repay you for your conduct <br/>   and for the detestable practices among you. <br/>“ ‘Then you will know that I am the Lord.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_5"> <sup>5</sup>“This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Disaster! Unheard-of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most Hebrew manuscripts; some Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac Disaster after">⚓</a> disaster! <br/>   See, it comes! <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_6">  <sup>6</sup>The end has come! <br/>   The end has come! <br/>  It has roused itself against you. <br/>   See, it comes! <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_7">  <sup>7</sup>Doom has come upon you, <br/>   upon you who dwell in the land. <br/>  The time has come! The day is near! <br/>   There is panic, not joy, on the mountains. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_8">  <sup>8</sup>I am about to pour out my wrath on you <br/>   and spend my anger against you. <br/>  I will judge you according to your conduct <br/>   and repay you for all your detestable practices. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_9">  <sup>9</sup>I will not look on you with pity; <br/>   I will not spare you. <br/>  I will repay you for your conduct <br/>   and for the detestable practices among you. <br/>“ ‘Then you will know that it is I the Lord who strikes you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_10">  <sup>10</sup>“ ‘See, the day! <br/>   See, it comes! <br/>  Doom has burst forth, <br/>   the rod has budded, <br/>   arrogance has blossomed! <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_11">  <sup>11</sup>Violence has arisen,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or The violent one has become">⚓</a><br/>   a rod to punish the wicked. <br/>  None of the people will be left, <br/>   none of that crowd— <br/>  none of their wealth, <br/>   nothing of value. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_12">  <sup>12</sup>The time has come! <br/>   The day has arrived! <br/>  Let not the buyer rejoice <br/>   nor the seller grieve, <br/>   for my wrath is on the whole crowd. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_13">  <sup>13</sup>The seller will not recover <br/>   the property that was sold— <br/>   as long as both buyer and seller live. <br/>  For the vision concerning the whole crowd <br/>   will not be reversed. <br/>  Because of their sins, not one of them <br/>   will preserve their life. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_14">  <sup>14</sup>“ ‘They have blown the trumpet, <br/>   they have made all things ready, <br/>  but no one will go into battle, <br/>   for my wrath is on the whole crowd. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_15">  <sup>15</sup>Outside is the sword; <br/>   inside are plague and famine. <br/>  Those in the country <br/>   will die by the sword; <br/>  those in the city <br/>   will be devoured by famine and plague. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_16">  <sup>16</sup>The fugitives who escape <br/>   will flee to the mountains. <br/>  Like doves of the valleys, <br/>   they will all moan, <br/>   each for their own sins. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_17">  <sup>17</sup>Every hand will go limp; <br/>   every leg will be wet with urine. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_18">  <sup>18</sup>They will put on sackcloth <br/>   and be clothed with terror. <br/>  Every face will be covered with shame, <br/>   and every head will be shaved. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_19">  <sup>19</sup>“ ‘They will throw their silver into the streets, <br/>   and their gold will be treated as a thing unclean. <br/>  Their silver and gold <br/>   will not be able to deliver them <br/>   in the day of the Lord’s wrath. <br/>  It will not satisfy their hunger <br/>   or fill their stomachs, <br/>   for it has caused them to stumble into sin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_20">  <sup>20</sup>They took pride in their beautiful jewelry <br/>   and used it to make their detestable idols. <br/>  They made it into vile images; <br/>   therefore I will make it a thing unclean for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_21">  <sup>21</sup>I will give their wealth as plunder to foreigners <br/>   and as loot to the wicked of the earth, <br/>   who will defile it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_22">  <sup>22</sup>I will turn my face away from the people, <br/>   and robbers will desecrate the place I treasure. <br/>  They will enter it <br/>   and will defile it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_23">  <sup>23</sup>“ ‘Prepare chains! <br/>   For the land is full of bloodshed, <br/>   and the city is full of violence. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_24">  <sup>24</sup>I will bring the most wicked of nations <br/>   to take possession of their houses. <br/>  I will put an end to the pride of the mighty, <br/>   and their sanctuaries will be desecrated. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_25">  <sup>25</sup>When terror comes, <br/>   they will seek peace in vain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_26">  <sup>26</sup>Calamity upon calamity will come, <br/>   and rumor upon rumor. <br/>  They will go searching for a vision from the prophet, <br/>   priestly instruction in the law will cease, <br/>   the counsel of the elders will come to an end. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_7_27">  <sup>27</sup>The king will mourn, <br/>   the prince will be clothed with despair, <br/>   and the hands of the people of the land will tremble. <br/>  I will deal with them according to their conduct, <br/>   and by their own standards I will judge them. <br/> “ ‘Then they will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
