---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>Judgment on the Idolaters </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then I heard him call out in a loud voice, “Bring near those who are appointed to execute judgment on the city, each with a weapon in his hand.” </span>
<span class="verse exe_9_2"><sup>2</sup>And I saw six men coming from the direction of the upper gate, which faces north, each with a deadly weapon in his hand. With them was a man clothed in linen who had a writing kit at his side. They came in and stood beside the bronze altar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_9_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now the glory of the God of Israel went up from above the cherubim, where it had been, and moved to the threshold of the temple. Then the Lord called to the man clothed in linen who had the writing kit at his side </span>
<span class="verse exe_9_4"><sup>4</sup>and said to him, “Go throughout the city of Jerusalem and put a mark on the foreheads of those who grieve and lament over all the detestable things that are done in it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_9_5"> <sup>5</sup>As I listened, he said to the others, “Follow him through the city and kill, without showing pity or compassion. </span>
<span class="verse exe_9_6"><sup>6</sup>Slaughter the old men, the young men and women, the mothers and children, but do not touch anyone who has the mark. Begin at my sanctuary.” So they began with the old men who were in front of the temple. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then he said to them, “Defile the temple and fill the courts with the slain. Go!” So they went out and began killing throughout the city. </span>
<span class="verse exe_9_8"><sup>8</sup>While they were killing and I was left alone, I fell facedown, crying out, “Alas, Sovereign Lord! Are you going to destroy the entire remnant of Israel in this outpouring of your wrath on Jerusalem?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_9_9"> <sup>9</sup>He answered me, “The sin of the people of Israel and Judah is exceedingly great; the land is full of bloodshed and the city is full of injustice. They say, ‘The Lord has forsaken the land; the Lord does not see.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_9_10"><sup>10</sup>So I will not look on them with pity or spare them, but I will bring down on their own heads what they have done.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_9_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then the man in linen with the writing kit at his side brought back word, saying, “I have done as you commanded.” <br/></span>
