---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>God’s Glory Departs From the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>I looked, and I saw the likeness of a throne of lapis lazuli above the vault that was over the heads of the cherubim. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_2"><sup>2</sup>The Lord said to the man clothed in linen, “Go in among the wheels beneath the cherubim. Fill your hands with burning coals from among the cherubim and scatter them over the city.” And as I watched, he went in. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_10_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now the cherubim were standing on the south side of the temple when the man went in, and a cloud filled the inner court. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_4"><sup>4</sup>Then the glory of the Lord rose from above the cherubim and moved to the threshold of the temple. The cloud filled the temple, and the court was full of the radiance of the glory of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_5"><sup>5</sup>The sound of the wings of the cherubim could be heard as far away as the outer court, like the voice of God Almighty<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew El-Shaddai">⚓</a> when he speaks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_10_6"> <sup>6</sup>When the Lord commanded the man in linen, “Take fire from among the wheels, from among the cherubim,” the man went in and stood beside a wheel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_7"><sup>7</sup>Then one of the cherubim reached out his hand to the fire that was among them. He took up some of it and put it into the hands of the man in linen, who took it and went out. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_8"><sup>8</sup>(Under the wings of the cherubim could be seen what looked like human hands.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_10_9"> <sup>9</sup>I looked, and I saw beside the cherubim four wheels, one beside each of the cherubim; the wheels sparkled like topaz. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_10"><sup>10</sup>As for their appearance, the four of them looked alike; each was like a wheel intersecting a wheel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_11"><sup>11</sup>As they moved, they would go in any one of the four directions the cherubim faced; the wheels did not turn about<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or aside">⚓</a> as the cherubim went. The cherubim went in whatever direction the head faced, without turning as they went. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_12"><sup>12</sup>Their entire bodies, including their backs, their hands and their wings, were completely full of eyes, as were their four wheels. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_13"><sup>13</sup>I heard the wheels being called “the whirling wheels.” </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_14"><sup>14</sup>Each of the cherubim had four faces: One face was that of a cherub, the second the face of a human being, the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_10_15"> <sup>15</sup>Then the cherubim rose upward. These were the living creatures I had seen by the Kebar River. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_16"><sup>16</sup>When the cherubim moved, the wheels beside them moved; and when the cherubim spread their wings to rise from the ground, the wheels did not leave their side. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_17"><sup>17</sup>When the cherubim stood still, they also stood still; and when the cherubim rose, they rose with them, because the spirit of the living creatures was in them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then the glory of the Lord departed from over the threshold of the temple and stopped above the cherubim. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_19"><sup>19</sup>While I watched, the cherubim spread their wings and rose from the ground, and as they went, the wheels went with them. They stopped at the entrance of the east gate of the Lord’s house, and the glory of the God of Israel was above them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_10_20"> <sup>20</sup>These were the living creatures I had seen beneath the God of Israel by the Kebar River, and I realized that they were cherubim. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_21"><sup>21</sup>Each had four faces and four wings, and under their wings was what looked like human hands. </span>
<span class="verse exe_10_22"><sup>22</sup>Their faces had the same appearance as those I had seen by the Kebar River. Each one went straight ahead. <br/></span>
