---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>God’s Sure Judgment on Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the gate of the house of the Lord that faces east. There at the entrance of the gate were twenty-five men, and I saw among them Jaazaniah son of Azzur and Pelatiah son of Benaiah, leaders of the people. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_2"><sup>2</sup>The Lord said to me, “Son of man, these are the men who are plotting evil and giving wicked advice in this city. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_3"><sup>3</sup>They say, ‘Haven’t our houses been recently rebuilt? This city is a pot, and we are the meat in it.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_4"><sup>4</sup>Therefore prophesy against them; prophesy, son of man.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_11_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the Spirit of the Lord came on me, and he told me to say: “This is what the Lord says: That is what you are saying, you leaders in Israel, but I know what is going through your mind. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_6"><sup>6</sup>You have killed many people in this city and filled its streets with the dead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: The bodies you have thrown there are the meat and this city is the pot, but I will drive you out of it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_8"><sup>8</sup>You fear the sword, and the sword is what I will bring against you, declares the Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_9"><sup>9</sup>I will drive you out of the city and deliver you into the hands of foreigners and inflict punishment on you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_10"><sup>10</sup>You will fall by the sword, and I will execute judgment on you at the borders of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_11"><sup>11</sup>This city will not be a pot for you, nor will you be the meat in it; I will execute judgment on you at the borders of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_12"><sup>12</sup>And you will know that I am the Lord, for you have not followed my decrees or kept my laws but have conformed to the standards of the nations around you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>Now as I was prophesying, Pelatiah son of Benaiah died. Then I fell facedown and cried out in a loud voice, “Alas, Sovereign Lord! Will you completely destroy the remnant of Israel?” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Promise of Israel’s Return </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_11_14"> <sup>14</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_15"><sup>15</sup>“Son of man, the people of Jerusalem have said of your fellow exiles and all the other Israelites, ‘They are far away from the Lord; this land was given to us as our possession.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_11_16"> <sup>16</sup>“Therefore say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Although I sent them far away among the nations and scattered them among the countries, yet for a little while I have been a sanctuary for them in the countries where they have gone.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_11_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Therefore say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will gather you from the nations and bring you back from the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you back the land of Israel again.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_11_18"> <sup>18</sup>“They will return to it and remove all its vile images and detestable idols. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_19"><sup>19</sup>I will give them an undivided heart and put a new spirit in them; I will remove from them their heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_20"><sup>20</sup>Then they will follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. They will be my people, and I will be their God. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_21"><sup>21</sup>But as for those whose hearts are devoted to their vile images and detestable idols, I will bring down on their own heads what they have done, declares the Sovereign Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then the cherubim, with the wheels beside them, spread their wings, and the glory of the God of Israel was above them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_23"><sup>23</sup>The glory of the Lord went up from within the city and stopped above the mountain east of it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_24"><sup>24</sup>The Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the exiles in Babylonia<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldea">⚓</a> in the vision given by the Spirit of God. <br/> Then the vision I had seen went up from me, </span>
<span class="verse exe_11_25"><sup>25</sup>and I told the exiles everything the Lord had shown me. <br/></span>
