---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>The Exile Symbolized </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, you are living among a rebellious people. They have eyes to see but do not see and ears to hear but do not hear, for they are a rebellious people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_3"> <sup>3</sup>“Therefore, son of man, pack your belongings for exile and in the daytime, as they watch, set out and go from where you are to another place. Perhaps they will understand, though they are a rebellious people. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_4"><sup>4</sup>During the daytime, while they watch, bring out your belongings packed for exile. Then in the evening, while they are watching, go out like those who go into exile. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_5"><sup>5</sup>While they watch, dig through the wall and take your belongings out through it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_6"><sup>6</sup>Put them on your shoulder as they are watching and carry them out at dusk. Cover your face so that you cannot see the land, for I have made you a sign to the Israelites.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>So I did as I was commanded. During the day I brought out my things packed for exile. Then in the evening I dug through the wall with my hands. I took my belongings out at dusk, carrying them on my shoulders while they watched. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>In the morning the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_9"><sup>9</sup>“Son of man, did not the Israelites, that rebellious people, ask you, ‘What are you doing?’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: This prophecy concerns the prince in Jerusalem and all the Israelites who are there.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_11"><sup>11</sup>Say to them, ‘I am a sign to you.’ <br/> “As I have done, so it will be done to them. They will go into exile as captives. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_12"> <sup>12</sup>“The prince among them will put his things on his shoulder at dusk and leave, and a hole will be dug in the wall for him to go through. He will cover his face so that he cannot see the land. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_13"><sup>13</sup>I will spread my net for him, and he will be caught in my snare; I will bring him to Babylonia, the land of the Chaldeans, but he will not see it, and there he will die. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_14"><sup>14</sup>I will scatter to the winds all those around him—his staff and all his troops—and I will pursue them with drawn sword. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_15"> <sup>15</sup>“They will know that I am the Lord, when I disperse them among the nations and scatter them through the countries. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_16"><sup>16</sup>But I will spare a few of them from the sword, famine and plague, so that in the nations where they go they may acknowledge all their detestable practices. Then they will know that I am the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_17"> <sup>17</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_18"><sup>18</sup>“Son of man, tremble as you eat your food, and shudder in fear as you drink your water. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_19"><sup>19</sup>Say to the people of the land: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says about those living in Jerusalem and in the land of Israel: They will eat their food in anxiety and drink their water in despair, for their land will be stripped of everything in it because of the violence of all who live there. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_20"><sup>20</sup>The inhabited towns will be laid waste and the land will be desolate. Then you will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>There Will Be No Delay </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_12_21"> <sup>21</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_22"><sup>22</sup>“Son of man, what is this proverb you have in the land of Israel: ‘The days go by and every vision comes to nothing’? </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_23"><sup>23</sup>Say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am going to put an end to this proverb, and they will no longer quote it in Israel.’ Say to them, ‘The days are near when every vision will be fulfilled. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_24"><sup>24</sup>For there will be no more false visions or flattering divinations among the people of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_25"><sup>25</sup>But I the Lord will speak what I will, and it shall be fulfilled without delay. For in your days, you rebellious people, I will fulfill whatever I say, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_26"> <sup>26</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_12_27"><sup>27</sup>“Son of man, the Israelites are saying, ‘The vision he sees is for many years from now, and he prophesies about the distant future.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_12_28"> <sup>28</sup>“Therefore say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: None of my words will be delayed any longer; whatever I say will be fulfilled, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
