---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>False Prophets Condemned </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who are now prophesying. Say to those who prophesy out of their own imagination: ‘Hear the word of the Lord! </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_3"><sup>3</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Woe to the foolish<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or wicked">⚓</a> prophets who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing! </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_4"><sup>4</sup>Your prophets, Israel, are like jackals among ruins. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_5"><sup>5</sup>You have not gone up to the breaches in the wall to repair it for the people of Israel so that it will stand firm in the battle on the day of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_6"><sup>6</sup>Their visions are false and their divinations a lie. Even though the Lord has not sent them, they say, “The Lord declares,” and expect him to fulfill their words. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_7"><sup>7</sup>Have you not seen false visions and uttered lying divinations when you say, “The Lord declares,” though I have not spoken? <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_13_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Because of your false words and lying visions, I am against you, declares the Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_9"><sup>9</sup>My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions and utter lying divinations. They will not belong to the council of my people or be listed in the records of Israel, nor will they enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Sovereign Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_13_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘Because they lead my people astray, saying, “Peace,” when there is no peace, and because, when a flimsy wall is built, they cover it with whitewash, </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_11"><sup>11</sup>therefore tell those who cover it with whitewash that it is going to fall. Rain will come in torrents, and I will send hailstones hurtling down, and violent winds will burst forth. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_12"><sup>12</sup>When the wall collapses, will people not ask you, “Where is the whitewash you covered it with?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_13_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: In my wrath I will unleash a violent wind, and in my anger hailstones and torrents of rain will fall with destructive fury. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_14"><sup>14</sup>I will tear down the wall you have covered with whitewash and will level it to the ground so that its foundation will be laid bare. When it<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the city">⚓</a> falls, you will be destroyed in it; and you will know that I am the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_15"><sup>15</sup>So I will pour out my wrath against the wall and against those who covered it with whitewash. I will say to you, “The wall is gone and so are those who whitewashed it, </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_16"><sup>16</sup>those prophets of Israel who prophesied to Jerusalem and saw visions of peace for her when there was no peace, declares the Sovereign Lord.” ’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_13_17"> <sup>17</sup>“Now, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people who prophesy out of their own imagination. Prophesy against them </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_18"><sup>18</sup>and say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Woe to the women who sew magic charms on all their wrists and make veils of various lengths for their heads in order to ensnare people. Will you ensnare the lives of my people but preserve your own? </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_19"><sup>19</sup>You have profaned me among my people for a few handfuls of barley and scraps of bread. By lying to my people, who listen to lies, you have killed those who should not have died and have spared those who should not live. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_13_20"> <sup>20</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am against your magic charms with which you ensnare people like birds and I will tear them from your arms; I will set free the people that you ensnare like birds. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_21"><sup>21</sup>I will tear off your veils and save my people from your hands, and they will no longer fall prey to your power. Then you will know that I am the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_22"><sup>22</sup>Because you disheartened the righteous with your lies, when I had brought them no grief, and because you encouraged the wicked not to turn from their evil ways and so save their lives, </span>
<span class="verse exe_13_23"><sup>23</sup>therefore you will no longer see false visions or practice divination. I will save my people from your hands. And then you will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
