---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>Two Eagles and a Vine </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, set forth an allegory and tell it to the Israelites as a parable. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_3"><sup>3</sup>Say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: A great eagle with powerful wings, long feathers and full plumage of varied colors came to Lebanon. Taking hold of the top of a cedar, </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_4"><sup>4</sup>he broke off its topmost shoot and carried it away to a land of merchants, where he planted it in a city of traders. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_17_5"> <sup>5</sup>“ ‘He took one of the seedlings of the land and put it in fertile soil. He planted it like a willow by abundant water, </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_6"><sup>6</sup>and it sprouted and became a low, spreading vine. Its branches turned toward him, but its roots remained under it. So it became a vine and produced branches and put out leafy boughs. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_17_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘But there was another great eagle with powerful wings and full plumage. The vine now sent out its roots toward him from the plot where it was planted and stretched out its branches to him for water. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_8"><sup>8</sup>It had been planted in good soil by abundant water so that it would produce branches, bear fruit and become a splendid vine.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_17_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Will it thrive? Will it not be uprooted and stripped of its fruit so that it withers? All its new growth will wither. It will not take a strong arm or many people to pull it up by the roots. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_10"><sup>10</sup>It has been planted, but will it thrive? Will it not wither completely when the east wind strikes it—wither away in the plot where it grew?’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_17_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_12"><sup>12</sup>“Say to this rebellious people, ‘Do you not know what these things mean?’ Say to them: ‘The king of Babylon went to Jerusalem and carried off her king and her nobles, bringing them back with him to Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_13"><sup>13</sup>Then he took a member of the royal family and made a treaty with him, putting him under oath. He also carried away the leading men of the land, </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_14"><sup>14</sup>so that the kingdom would be brought low, unable to rise again, surviving only by keeping his treaty. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_15"><sup>15</sup>But the king rebelled against him by sending his envoys to Egypt to get horses and a large army. Will he succeed? Will he who does such things escape? Will he break the treaty and yet escape? <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_17_16"> <sup>16</sup>“ ‘As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, he shall die in Babylon, in the land of the king who put him on the throne, whose oath he despised and whose treaty he broke. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_17"><sup>17</sup>Pharaoh with his mighty army and great horde will be of no help to him in war, when ramps are built and siege works erected to destroy many lives. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_18"><sup>18</sup>He despised the oath by breaking the covenant. Because he had given his hand in pledge and yet did all these things, he shall not escape. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_17_19"> <sup>19</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: As surely as I live, I will repay him for despising my oath and breaking my covenant. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_20"><sup>20</sup>I will spread my net for him, and he will be caught in my snare. I will bring him to Babylon and execute judgment on him there because he was unfaithful to me. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_21"><sup>21</sup>All his choice troops will fall by the sword, and the survivors will be scattered to the winds. Then you will know that I the Lord have spoken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_17_22"> <sup>22</sup>“ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I myself will take a shoot from the very top of a cedar and plant it; I will break off a tender sprig from its topmost shoots and plant it on a high and lofty mountain. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_23"><sup>23</sup>On the mountain heights of Israel I will plant it; it will produce branches and bear fruit and become a splendid cedar. Birds of every kind will nest in it; they will find shelter in the shade of its branches. </span>
<span class="verse exe_17_24"><sup>24</sup>All the trees of the forest will know that I the Lord bring down the tall tree and make the low tree grow tall. I dry up the green tree and make the dry tree flourish. <br/> “ ‘I the Lord have spoken, and I will do it.’ ” <br/></span>
