---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>The One Who Sins Will Die </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_2"><sup>2</sup>“What do you people mean by quoting this proverb about the land of Israel: <br/>  “ ‘The parents eat sour grapes, <br/>   and the children’s teeth are set on edge’? <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_3"> <sup>3</sup>“As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, you will no longer quote this proverb in Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_4"><sup>4</sup>For everyone belongs to me, the parent as well as the child—both alike belong to me. The one who sins is the one who will die. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_5">  <sup>5</sup>“Suppose there is a righteous man <br/>   who does what is just and right. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_6">  <sup>6</sup>He does not eat at the mountain shrines <br/>   or look to the idols of Israel. <br/>  He does not defile his neighbor’s wife <br/>   or have sexual relations with a woman during her period. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_7">  <sup>7</sup>He does not oppress anyone, <br/>   but returns what he took in pledge for a loan. <br/>  He does not commit robbery <br/>   but gives his food to the hungry <br/>   and provides clothing for the naked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_8">  <sup>8</sup>He does not lend to them at interest <br/>   or take a profit from them. <br/>  He withholds his hand from doing wrong <br/>   and judges fairly between two parties. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_9">  <sup>9</sup>He follows my decrees <br/>   and faithfully keeps my laws. <br/>  That man is righteous; <br/>   he will surely live, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Sovereign Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Suppose he has a violent son, who sheds blood or does any of these other things<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or things to a brother">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_11"><sup>11</sup>(though the father has done none of them): <br/>  “He eats at the mountain shrines. <br/>  He defiles his neighbor’s wife. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_12">  <sup>12</sup>He oppresses the poor and needy. <br/>  He commits robbery. <br/>  He does not return what he took in pledge. <br/>  He looks to the idols. <br/>  He does detestable things. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_13">  <sup>13</sup>He lends at interest and takes a profit. <br/>Will such a man live? He will not! Because he has done all these detestable things, he is to be put to death; his blood will be on his own head. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_14"> <sup>14</sup>“But suppose this son has a son who sees all the sins his father commits, and though he sees them, he does not do such things: <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_15">  <sup>15</sup>“He does not eat at the mountain shrines <br/>   or look to the idols of Israel. <br/>  He does not defile his neighbor’s wife. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_16">  <sup>16</sup>He does not oppress anyone <br/>   or require a pledge for a loan. <br/>  He does not commit robbery <br/>   but gives his food to the hungry <br/>   and provides clothing for the naked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_17">  <sup>17</sup>He withholds his hand from mistreating the poor <br/>   and takes no interest or profit from them. <br/>  He keeps my laws and follows my decrees. <br/>He will not die for his father’s sin; he will surely live. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_18"><sup>18</sup>But his father will die for his own sin, because he practiced extortion, robbed his brother and did what was wrong among his people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_19"> <sup>19</sup>“Yet you ask, ‘Why does the son not share the guilt of his father?’ Since the son has done what is just and right and has been careful to keep all my decrees, he will surely live. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_20"><sup>20</sup>The one who sins is the one who will die. The child will not share the guilt of the parent, nor will the parent share the guilt of the child. The righteousness of the righteous will be credited to them, and the wickedness of the wicked will be charged against them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_21"> <sup>21</sup>“But if a wicked person turns away from all the sins they have committed and keeps all my decrees and does what is just and right, that person will surely live; they will not die. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_22"><sup>22</sup>None of the offenses they have committed will be remembered against them. Because of the righteous things they have done, they will live. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_23"><sup>23</sup>Do I take any pleasure in the death of the wicked? declares the Sovereign Lord. Rather, am I not pleased when they turn from their ways and live? <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_24"> <sup>24</sup>“But if a righteous person turns from their righteousness and commits sin and does the same detestable things the wicked person does, will they live? None of the righteous things that person has done will be remembered. Because of the unfaithfulness they are guilty of and because of the sins they have committed, they will die. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_25"> <sup>25</sup>“Yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’ Hear, you Israelites: Is my way unjust? Is it not your ways that are unjust? </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_26"><sup>26</sup>If a righteous person turns from their righteousness and commits sin, they will die for it; because of the sin they have committed they will die. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_27"><sup>27</sup>But if a wicked person turns away from the wickedness they have committed and does what is just and right, they will save their life. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_28"><sup>28</sup>Because they consider all the offenses they have committed and turn away from them, that person will surely live; they will not die. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_29"><sup>29</sup>Yet the Israelites say, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’ Are my ways unjust, people of Israel? Is it not your ways that are unjust? <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_18_30"> <sup>30</sup>“Therefore, you Israelites, I will judge each of you according to your own ways, declares the Sovereign Lord. Repent! Turn away from all your offenses; then sin will not be your downfall. </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_31"><sup>31</sup>Rid yourselves of all the offenses you have committed, and get a new heart and a new spirit. Why will you die, people of Israel? </span>
<span class="verse exe_18_32"><sup>32</sup>For I take no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Sovereign Lord. Repent and live! <br/></span>
