---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>Rebellious Israel Purged </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the seventh year, in the fifth month on the tenth day, some of the elders of Israel came to inquire of the Lord, and they sat down in front of me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_3"><sup>3</sup>“Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel and say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Have you come to inquire of me? As surely as I live, I will not let you inquire of me, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_4"> <sup>4</sup>“Will you judge them? Will you judge them, son of man? Then confront them with the detestable practices of their ancestors </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_5"><sup>5</sup>and say to them: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: On the day I chose Israel, I swore with uplifted hand to the descendants of Jacob and revealed myself to them in Egypt. With uplifted hand I said to them, “I am the Lord your God.” </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_6"><sup>6</sup>On that day I swore to them that I would bring them out of Egypt into a land I had searched out for them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most beautiful of all lands. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_7"><sup>7</sup>And I said to them, “Each of you, get rid of the vile images you have set your eyes on, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt. I am the Lord your God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘But they rebelled against me and would not listen to me; they did not get rid of the vile images they had set their eyes on, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. So I said I would pour out my wrath on them and spend my anger against them in Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_9"><sup>9</sup>But for the sake of my name, I brought them out of Egypt. I did it to keep my name from being profaned in the eyes of the nations among whom they lived and in whose sight I had revealed myself to the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_10"><sup>10</sup>Therefore I led them out of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_11"><sup>11</sup>I gave them my decrees and made known to them my laws, by which the person who obeys them will live. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_12"><sup>12</sup>Also I gave them my Sabbaths as a sign between us, so they would know that I the Lord made them holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Yet the people of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not follow my decrees but rejected my laws—by which the person who obeys them will live—and they utterly desecrated my Sabbaths. So I said I would pour out my wrath on them and destroy them in the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_14"><sup>14</sup>But for the sake of my name I did what would keep it from being profaned in the eyes of the nations in whose sight I had brought them out. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_15"><sup>15</sup>Also with uplifted hand I swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land I had given them—a land flowing with milk and honey, the most beautiful of all lands— </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_16"><sup>16</sup>because they rejected my laws and did not follow my decrees and desecrated my Sabbaths. For their hearts were devoted to their idols. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_17"><sup>17</sup>Yet I looked on them with pity and did not destroy them or put an end to them in the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_18"><sup>18</sup>I said to their children in the wilderness, “Do not follow the statutes of your parents or keep their laws or defile yourselves with their idols. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_19"><sup>19</sup>I am the Lord your God; follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_20"><sup>20</sup>Keep my Sabbaths holy, that they may be a sign between us. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_21"> <sup>21</sup>“ ‘But the children rebelled against me: They did not follow my decrees, they were not careful to keep my laws, of which I said, “The person who obeys them will live by them,” and they desecrated my Sabbaths. So I said I would pour out my wrath on them and spend my anger against them in the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_22"><sup>22</sup>But I withheld my hand, and for the sake of my name I did what would keep it from being profaned in the eyes of the nations in whose sight I had brought them out. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_23"><sup>23</sup>Also with uplifted hand I swore to them in the wilderness that I would disperse them among the nations and scatter them through the countries, </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_24"><sup>24</sup>because they had not obeyed my laws but had rejected my decrees and desecrated my Sabbaths, and their eyes lusted after their parents’ idols. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_25"><sup>25</sup>So I gave them other statutes that were not good and laws through which they could not live; </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_26"><sup>26</sup>I defiled them through their gifts—the sacrifice of every firstborn—that I might fill them with horror so they would know that I am the Lord.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_27"> <sup>27</sup>“Therefore, son of man, speak to the people of Israel and say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: In this also your ancestors blasphemed me by being unfaithful to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_28"><sup>28</sup>When I brought them into the land I had sworn to give them and they saw any high hill or any leafy tree, there they offered their sacrifices, made offerings that aroused my anger, presented their fragrant incense and poured out their drink offerings. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_29"><sup>29</sup>Then I said to them: What is this high place you go to?’ ” (It is called Bamah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means high place.">⚓</a> to this day.) <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Rebellious Israel Renewed </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_20_30"> <sup>30</sup>“Therefore say to the Israelites: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Will you defile yourselves the way your ancestors did and lust after their vile images? </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_31"><sup>31</sup>When you offer your gifts—the sacrifice of your children in the fire—you continue to defile yourselves with all your idols to this day. Am I to let you inquire of me, you Israelites? As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I will not let you inquire of me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_32"> <sup>32</sup>“ ‘You say, “We want to be like the nations, like the peoples of the world, who serve wood and stone.” But what you have in mind will never happen. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_33"><sup>33</sup>As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I will reign over you with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with outpoured wrath. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_34"><sup>34</sup>I will bring you from the nations and gather you from the countries where you have been scattered—with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with outpoured wrath. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_35"><sup>35</sup>I will bring you into the wilderness of the nations and there, face to face, I will execute judgment upon you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_36"><sup>36</sup>As I judged your ancestors in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will judge you, declares the Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_37"><sup>37</sup>I will take note of you as you pass under my rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_38"><sup>38</sup>I will purge you of those who revolt and rebel against me. Although I will bring them out of the land where they are living, yet they will not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_39"> <sup>39</sup>“ ‘As for you, people of Israel, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Go and serve your idols, every one of you! But afterward you will surely listen to me and no longer profane my holy name with your gifts and idols. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_40"><sup>40</sup>For on my holy mountain, the high mountain of Israel, declares the Sovereign Lord, there in the land all the people of Israel will serve me, and there I will accept them. There I will require your offerings and your choice gifts,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and the gifts of your firstfruits">⚓</a> along with all your holy sacrifices. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_41"><sup>41</sup>I will accept you as fragrant incense when I bring you out from the nations and gather you from the countries where you have been scattered, and I will be proved holy through you in the sight of the nations. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_42"><sup>42</sup>Then you will know that I am the Lord, when I bring you into the land of Israel, the land I had sworn with uplifted hand to give to your ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_43"><sup>43</sup>There you will remember your conduct and all the actions by which you have defiled yourselves, and you will loathe yourselves for all the evil you have done. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_44"><sup>44</sup>You will know that I am the Lord, when I deal with you for my name’s sake and not according to your evil ways and your corrupt practices, you people of Israel, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Prophecy Against the South </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_20_45"> <sup>45</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_46"><sup>46</sup>“Son of man, set your face toward the south; preach against the south and prophesy against the forest of the southland. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_47"><sup>47</sup>Say to the southern forest: ‘Hear the word of the Lord. This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am about to set fire to you, and it will consume all your trees, both green and dry. The blazing flame will not be quenched, and every face from south to north will be scorched by it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_20_48"><sup>48</sup>Everyone will see that I the Lord have kindled it; it will not be quenched.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_20_49"> <sup>49</sup>Then I said, “Sovereign Lord, they are saying of me, ‘Isn’t he just telling parables?’ ”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts 20:45-49 is numbered 21:1-5.">⚓</a><br/></span>
