---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>Judgment on Jerusalem’s Sins </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_22_2"> <sup>2</sup>“Son of man, will you judge her? Will you judge this city of bloodshed? Then confront her with all her detestable practices </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_3"><sup>3</sup>and say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: You city that brings on herself doom by shedding blood in her midst and defiles herself by making idols, </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_4"><sup>4</sup>you have become guilty because of the blood you have shed and have become defiled by the idols you have made. You have brought your days to a close, and the end of your years has come. Therefore I will make you an object of scorn to the nations and a laughingstock to all the countries. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_5"><sup>5</sup>Those who are near and those who are far away will mock you, you infamous city, full of turmoil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘See how each of the princes of Israel who are in you uses his power to shed blood. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_7"><sup>7</sup>In you they have treated father and mother with contempt; in you they have oppressed the foreigner and mistreated the fatherless and the widow. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_8"><sup>8</sup>You have despised my holy things and desecrated my Sabbaths. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_9"><sup>9</sup>In you are slanderers who are bent on shedding blood; in you are those who eat at the mountain shrines and commit lewd acts. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_10"><sup>10</sup>In you are those who dishonor their father’s bed; in you are those who violate women during their period, when they are ceremonially unclean. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_11"><sup>11</sup>In you one man commits a detestable offense with his neighbor’s wife, another shamefully defiles his daughter-in-law, and another violates his sister, his own father’s daughter. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_12"><sup>12</sup>In you are people who accept bribes to shed blood; you take interest and make a profit from the poor. You extort unjust gain from your neighbors. And you have forgotten me, declares the Sovereign Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_22_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘I will surely strike my hands together at the unjust gain you have made and at the blood you have shed in your midst. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_14"><sup>14</sup>Will your courage endure or your hands be strong in the day I deal with you? I the Lord have spoken, and I will do it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_15"><sup>15</sup>I will disperse you among the nations and scatter you through the countries; and I will put an end to your uncleanness. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_16"><sup>16</sup>When you have been defiled<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or When I have allotted you your inheritance">⚓</a> in the eyes of the nations, you will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_22_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_18"><sup>18</sup>“Son of man, the people of Israel have become dross to me; all of them are the copper, tin, iron and lead left inside a furnace. They are but the dross of silver. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_19"><sup>19</sup>Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: ‘Because you have all become dross, I will gather you into Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_20"><sup>20</sup>As silver, copper, iron, lead and tin are gathered into a furnace to be melted with a fiery blast, so will I gather you in my anger and my wrath and put you inside the city and melt you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_21"><sup>21</sup>I will gather you and I will blow on you with my fiery wrath, and you will be melted inside her. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_22"><sup>22</sup>As silver is melted in a furnace, so you will be melted inside her, and you will know that I the Lord have poured out my wrath on you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_22_23"> <sup>23</sup>Again the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_24"><sup>24</sup>“Son of man, say to the land, ‘You are a land that has not been cleansed or rained on in the day of wrath.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_25"><sup>25</sup>There is a conspiracy of her princes<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew prophets">⚓</a> within her like a roaring lion tearing its prey; they devour people, take treasures and precious things and make many widows within her. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_26"><sup>26</sup>Her priests do violence to my law and profane my holy things; they do not distinguish between the holy and the common; they teach that there is no difference between the unclean and the clean; and they shut their eyes to the keeping of my Sabbaths, so that I am profaned among them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_27"><sup>27</sup>Her officials within her are like wolves tearing their prey; they shed blood and kill people to make unjust gain. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_28"><sup>28</sup>Her prophets whitewash these deeds for them by false visions and lying divinations. They say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says’—when the Lord has not spoken. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_29"><sup>29</sup>The people of the land practice extortion and commit robbery; they oppress the poor and needy and mistreat the foreigner, denying them justice. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_22_30"> <sup>30</sup>“I looked for someone among them who would build up the wall and stand before me in the gap on behalf of the land so I would not have to destroy it, but I found no one. </span>
<span class="verse exe_22_31"><sup>31</sup>So I will pour out my wrath on them and consume them with my fiery anger, bringing down on their own heads all they have done, declares the Sovereign Lord.” <br/></span>
