---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>Two Adulterous Sisters </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, there were two women, daughters of the same mother. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_3"><sup>3</sup>They became prostitutes in Egypt, engaging in prostitution from their youth. In that land their breasts were fondled and their virgin bosoms caressed. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_4"><sup>4</sup>The older was named Oholah, and her sister was Oholibah. They were mine and gave birth to sons and daughters. Oholah is Samaria, and Oholibah is Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_5"> <sup>5</sup>“Oholah engaged in prostitution while she was still mine; and she lusted after her lovers, the Assyrians—warriors </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_6"><sup>6</sup>clothed in blue, governors and commanders, all of them handsome young men, and mounted horsemen. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_7"><sup>7</sup>She gave herself as a prostitute to all the elite of the Assyrians and defiled herself with all the idols of everyone she lusted after. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_8"><sup>8</sup>She did not give up the prostitution she began in Egypt, when during her youth men slept with her, caressed her virgin bosom and poured out their lust on her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Therefore I delivered her into the hands of her lovers, the Assyrians, for whom she lusted. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_10"><sup>10</sup>They stripped her naked, took away her sons and daughters and killed her with the sword. She became a byword among women, and punishment was inflicted on her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Her sister Oholibah saw this, yet in her lust and prostitution she was more depraved than her sister. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_12"><sup>12</sup>She too lusted after the Assyrians—governors and commanders, warriors in full dress, mounted horsemen, all handsome young men. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_13"><sup>13</sup>I saw that she too defiled herself; both of them went the same way. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_14"> <sup>14</sup>“But she carried her prostitution still further. She saw men portrayed on a wall, figures of Chaldeans<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Babylonians">⚓</a> portrayed in red, </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_15"><sup>15</sup>with belts around their waists and flowing turbans on their heads; all of them looked like Babylonian chariot officers, natives of Chaldea.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Babylonia ; also in verse 16">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_16"><sup>16</sup>As soon as she saw them, she lusted after them and sent messengers to them in Chaldea. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_17"><sup>17</sup>Then the Babylonians came to her, to the bed of love, and in their lust they defiled her. After she had been defiled by them, she turned away from them in disgust. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_18"><sup>18</sup>When she carried on her prostitution openly and exposed her naked body, I turned away from her in disgust, just as I had turned away from her sister. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_19"><sup>19</sup>Yet she became more and more promiscuous as she recalled the days of her youth, when she was a prostitute in Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_20"><sup>20</sup>There she lusted after her lovers, whose genitals were like those of donkeys and whose emission was like that of horses. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_21"><sup>21</sup>So you longed for the lewdness of your youth, when in Egypt your bosom was caressed and your young breasts fondled.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Syriac (see also verse 3); Hebrew caressed because of your young breasts">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_22"> <sup>22</sup>“Therefore, Oholibah, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will stir up your lovers against you, those you turned away from in disgust, and I will bring them against you from every side— </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_23"><sup>23</sup>the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, the men of Pekod and Shoa and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them, handsome young men, all of them governors and commanders, chariot officers and men of high rank, all mounted on horses. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_24"><sup>24</sup>They will come against you with weapons,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> chariots and wagons and with a throng of people; they will take up positions against you on every side with large and small shields and with helmets. I will turn you over to them for punishment, and they will punish you according to their standards. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_25"><sup>25</sup>I will direct my jealous anger against you, and they will deal with you in fury. They will cut off your noses and your ears, and those of you who are left will fall by the sword. They will take away your sons and daughters, and those of you who are left will be consumed by fire. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_26"><sup>26</sup>They will also strip you of your clothes and take your fine jewelry. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_27"><sup>27</sup>So I will put a stop to the lewdness and prostitution you began in Egypt. You will not look on these things with longing or remember Egypt anymore. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_28"> <sup>28</sup>“For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am about to deliver you into the hands of those you hate, to those you turned away from in disgust. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_29"><sup>29</sup>They will deal with you in hatred and take away everything you have worked for. They will leave you stark naked, and the shame of your prostitution will be exposed. Your lewdness and promiscuity </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_30"><sup>30</sup>have brought this on you, because you lusted after the nations and defiled yourself with their idols. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_31"><sup>31</sup>You have gone the way of your sister; so I will put her cup into your hand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_32"> <sup>32</sup>“This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “You will drink your sister’s cup, <br/>   a cup large and deep; <br/>  it will bring scorn and derision, <br/>   for it holds so much. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_33">  <sup>33</sup>You will be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, <br/>   the cup of ruin and desolation, <br/>   the cup of your sister Samaria. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_34">  <sup>34</sup>You will drink it and drain it dry <br/>   and chew on its pieces— <br/>   and you will tear your breasts. <br/> I have spoken, declares the Sovereign Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_35"> <sup>35</sup>“Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Since you have forgotten me and turned your back on me, you must bear the consequences of your lewdness and prostitution.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_36"> <sup>36</sup>The Lord said to me: “Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? Then confront them with their detestable practices, </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_37"><sup>37</sup>for they have committed adultery and blood is on their hands. They committed adultery with their idols; they even sacrificed their children, whom they bore to me, as food for them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_38"><sup>38</sup>They have also done this to me: At that same time they defiled my sanctuary and desecrated my Sabbaths. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_39"><sup>39</sup>On the very day they sacrificed their children to their idols, they entered my sanctuary and desecrated it. That is what they did in my house. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_40"> <sup>40</sup>“They even sent messengers for men who came from far away, and when they arrived you bathed yourself for them, applied eye makeup and put on your jewelry. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_41"><sup>41</sup>You sat on an elegant couch, with a table spread before it on which you had placed the incense and olive oil that belonged to me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_42"> <sup>42</sup>“The noise of a carefree crowd was around her; drunkards were brought from the desert along with men from the rabble, and they put bracelets on the wrists of the woman and her sister and beautiful crowns on their heads. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_43"><sup>43</sup>Then I said about the one worn out by adultery, ‘Now let them use her as a prostitute, for that is all she is.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_44"><sup>44</sup>And they slept with her. As men sleep with a prostitute, so they slept with those lewd women, Oholah and Oholibah. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_45"><sup>45</sup>But righteous judges will sentence them to the punishment of women who commit adultery and shed blood, because they are adulterous and blood is on their hands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_46"> <sup>46</sup>“This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Bring a mob against them and give them over to terror and plunder. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_47"><sup>47</sup>The mob will stone them and cut them down with their swords; they will kill their sons and daughters and burn down their houses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_23_48"> <sup>48</sup>“So I will put an end to lewdness in the land, that all women may take warning and not imitate you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_23_49"><sup>49</sup>You will suffer the penalty for your lewdness and bear the consequences of your sins of idolatry. Then you will know that I am the Sovereign Lord.” <br/></span>
