---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>Jerusalem as a Cooking Pot </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the ninth year, in the tenth month on the tenth day, the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, record this date, this very date, because the king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day. </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_3"><sup>3</sup>Tell this rebellious people a parable and say to them: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Put on the cooking pot; put it on <br/>   and pour water into it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_4">  <sup>4</sup>Put into it the pieces of meat, <br/>   all the choice pieces—the leg and the shoulder. <br/>  Fill it with the best of these bones; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_5">   <sup>5</sup>take the pick of the flock. <br/>  Pile wood beneath it for the bones; <br/>   bring it to a boil <br/>   and cook the bones in it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Woe to the city of bloodshed, <br/>   to the pot now encrusted, <br/>   whose deposit will not go away! <br/>  Take the meat out piece by piece <br/>   in whatever order it comes. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_7">  <sup>7</sup>“ ‘For the blood she shed is in her midst: <br/>   She poured it on the bare rock; <br/>  she did not pour it on the ground, <br/>   where the dust would cover it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_8">  <sup>8</sup>To stir up wrath and take revenge <br/>   I put her blood on the bare rock, <br/>   so that it would not be covered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Woe to the city of bloodshed! <br/>   I, too, will pile the wood high. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_10">  <sup>10</sup>So heap on the wood <br/>   and kindle the fire. <br/>  Cook the meat well, <br/>   mixing in the spices; <br/>   and let the bones be charred. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_11">  <sup>11</sup>Then set the empty pot on the coals <br/>   till it becomes hot and its copper glows, <br/>  so that its impurities may be melted <br/>   and its deposit burned away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_12">  <sup>12</sup>It has frustrated all efforts; <br/>   its heavy deposit has not been removed, <br/>   not even by fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Now your impurity is lewdness. Because I tried to cleanse you but you would not be cleansed from your impurity, you will not be clean again until my wrath against you has subsided. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘I the Lord have spoken. The time has come for me to act. I will not hold back; I will not have pity, nor will I relent. You will be judged according to your conduct and your actions, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ezekiel’s Wife Dies </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_24_15"> <sup>15</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_16"><sup>16</sup>“Son of man, with one blow I am about to take away from you the delight of your eyes. Yet do not lament or weep or shed any tears. </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_17"><sup>17</sup>Groan quietly; do not mourn for the dead. Keep your turban fastened and your sandals on your feet; do not cover your mustache and beard or eat the customary food of mourners.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_18"> <sup>18</sup>So I spoke to the people in the morning, and in the evening my wife died. The next morning I did as I had been commanded. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then the people asked me, “Won’t you tell us what these things have to do with us? Why are you acting like this?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_20"> <sup>20</sup>So I said to them, “The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_21"><sup>21</sup>Say to the people of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am about to desecrate my sanctuary—the stronghold in which you take pride, the delight of your eyes, the object of your affection. The sons and daughters you left behind will fall by the sword. </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_22"><sup>22</sup>And you will do as I have done. You will not cover your mustache and beard or eat the customary food of mourners. </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_23"><sup>23</sup>You will keep your turbans on your heads and your sandals on your feet. You will not mourn or weep but will waste away because of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or away in">⚓</a> your sins and groan among yourselves. </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_24"><sup>24</sup>Ezekiel will be a sign to you; you will do just as he has done. When this happens, you will know that I am the Sovereign Lord.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_24_25"> <sup>25</sup>“And you, son of man, on the day I take away their stronghold, their joy and glory, the delight of their eyes, their heart’s desire, and their sons and daughters as well— </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_26"><sup>26</sup>on that day a fugitive will come to tell you the news. </span>
<span class="verse exe_24_27"><sup>27</sup>At that time your mouth will be opened; you will speak with him and will no longer be silent. So you will be a sign to them, and they will know that I am the Lord.” <br/></span>
