---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1><h3>A Prophecy Against Ammon </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_25_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, set your face against the Ammonites and prophesy against them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_3"><sup>3</sup>Say to them, ‘Hear the word of the Sovereign Lord. This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Because you said “Aha!” over my sanctuary when it was desecrated and over the land of Israel when it was laid waste and over the people of Judah when they went into exile, </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_4"><sup>4</sup>therefore I am going to give you to the people of the East as a possession. They will set up their camps and pitch their tents among you; they will eat your fruit and drink your milk. </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_5"><sup>5</sup>I will turn Rabbah into a pasture for camels and Ammon into a resting place for sheep. Then you will know that I am the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_6"><sup>6</sup>For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Because you have clapped your hands and stamped your feet, rejoicing with all the malice of your heart against the land of Israel, </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_7"><sup>7</sup>therefore I will stretch out my hand against you and give you as plunder to the nations. I will wipe you out from among the nations and exterminate you from the countries. I will destroy you, and you will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Prophecy Against Moab </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_25_8"> <sup>8</sup>“This is what the Sovereign Lord says: ‘Because Moab and Seir said, “Look, Judah has become like all the other nations,” </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_9"><sup>9</sup>therefore I will expose the flank of Moab, beginning at its frontier towns—Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon and Kiriathaim—the glory of that land. </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_10"><sup>10</sup>I will give Moab along with the Ammonites to the people of the East as a possession, so that the Ammonites will not be remembered among the nations; </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_11"><sup>11</sup>and I will inflict punishment on Moab. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Prophecy Against Edom </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_25_12"> <sup>12</sup>“This is what the Sovereign Lord says: ‘Because Edom took revenge on Judah and became very guilty by doing so, </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_13"><sup>13</sup>therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will stretch out my hand against Edom and kill both man and beast. I will lay it waste, and from Teman to Dedan they will fall by the sword. </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_14"><sup>14</sup>I will take vengeance on Edom by the hand of my people Israel, and they will deal with Edom in accordance with my anger and my wrath; they will know my vengeance, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Prophecy Against Philistia </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_25_15"> <sup>15</sup>“This is what the Sovereign Lord says: ‘Because the Philistines acted in vengeance and took revenge with malice in their hearts, and with ancient hostility sought to destroy Judah, </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_16"><sup>16</sup>therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am about to stretch out my hand against the Philistines, and I will wipe out the Kerethites and destroy those remaining along the coast. </span>
<span class="verse exe_25_17"><sup>17</sup>I will carry out great vengeance on them and punish them in my wrath. Then they will know that I am the Lord, when I take vengeance on them.’ ” <br/></span>
