---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\26.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>26</h1><h3>A Prophecy Against Tyre </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_26_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the eleventh month of the twelfth<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text does not have month of the twelfth .">⚓</a> year, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, because Tyre has said of Jerusalem, ‘Aha! The gate to the nations is broken, and its doors have swung open to me; now that she lies in ruins I will prosper,’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_3"><sup>3</sup>therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am against you, Tyre, and I will bring many nations against you, like the sea casting up its waves. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_4"><sup>4</sup>They will destroy the walls of Tyre and pull down her towers; I will scrape away her rubble and make her a bare rock. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_5"><sup>5</sup>Out in the sea she will become a place to spread fishnets, for I have spoken, declares the Sovereign Lord. She will become plunder for the nations, </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_6"><sup>6</sup>and her settlements on the mainland will be ravaged by the sword. Then they will know that I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_26_7"> <sup>7</sup>“For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: From the north I am going to bring against Tyre Nebuchadnezzar<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Nebuchadrezzar, of which Nebuchadnezzar is a variant; here and often in Ezekiel and Jeremiah">⚓</a> king of Babylon, king of kings, with horses and chariots, with horsemen and a great army. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_8"><sup>8</sup>He will ravage your settlements on the mainland with the sword; he will set up siege works against you, build a ramp up to your walls and raise his shields against you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_9"><sup>9</sup>He will direct the blows of his battering rams against your walls and demolish your towers with his weapons. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_10"><sup>10</sup>His horses will be so many that they will cover you with dust. Your walls will tremble at the noise of the warhorses, wagons and chariots when he enters your gates as men enter a city whose walls have been broken through. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_11"><sup>11</sup>The hooves of his horses will trample all your streets; he will kill your people with the sword, and your strong pillars will fall to the ground. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_12"><sup>12</sup>They will plunder your wealth and loot your merchandise; they will break down your walls and demolish your fine houses and throw your stones, timber and rubble into the sea. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_13"><sup>13</sup>I will put an end to your noisy songs, and the music of your harps will be heard no more. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_14"><sup>14</sup>I will make you a bare rock, and you will become a place to spread fishnets. You will never be rebuilt, for I the Lord have spoken, declares the Sovereign Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_26_15"> <sup>15</sup>“This is what the Sovereign Lord says to Tyre: Will not the coastlands tremble at the sound of your fall, when the wounded groan and the slaughter takes place in you? </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_16"><sup>16</sup>Then all the princes of the coast will step down from their thrones and lay aside their robes and take off their embroidered garments. Clothed with terror, they will sit on the ground, trembling every moment, appalled at you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_17"><sup>17</sup>Then they will take up a lament concerning you and say to you: <br/>  “ ‘How you are destroyed, city of renown, <br/>   peopled by men of the sea! <br/>  You were a power on the seas, <br/>   you and your citizens; <br/>  you put your terror <br/>   on all who lived there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_26_18">  <sup>18</sup>Now the coastlands tremble <br/>   on the day of your fall; <br/>  the islands in the sea <br/>   are terrified at your collapse.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_26_19"> <sup>19</sup>“This is what the Sovereign Lord says: When I make you a desolate city, like cities no longer inhabited, and when I bring the ocean depths over you and its vast waters cover you, </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_20"><sup>20</sup>then I will bring you down with those who go down to the pit, to the people of long ago. I will make you dwell in the earth below, as in ancient ruins, with those who go down to the pit, and you will not return or take your place<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew return, and I will give glory">⚓</a> in the land of the living. </span>
<span class="verse exe_26_21"><sup>21</sup>I will bring you to a horrible end and you will be no more. You will be sought, but you will never again be found, declares the Sovereign Lord.” <br/></span>
