---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\27.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>27</h1><h3>A Lament Over Tyre </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_27_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_27_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, take up a lament concerning Tyre. </span>
<span class="verse exe_27_3"><sup>3</sup>Say to Tyre, situated at the gateway to the sea, merchant of peoples on many coasts, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘You say, Tyre, <br/>   “I am perfect in beauty.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_4">  <sup>4</sup>Your domain was on the high seas; <br/>   your builders brought your beauty to perfection. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_5">  <sup>5</sup>They made all your timbers <br/>   of juniper from Senir<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Mount Hermon">⚓</a> ; <br/>  they took a cedar from Lebanon <br/>   to make a mast for you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_6">  <sup>6</sup>Of oaks from Bashan <br/>   they made your oars; <br/>  of cypress wood<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Targum; the Masoretic Text has a different division of the consonants.">⚓</a> from the coasts of Cyprus <br/>   they made your deck, adorned with ivory. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_7">  <sup>7</sup>Fine embroidered linen from Egypt was your sail <br/>   and served as your banner; <br/>  your awnings were of blue and purple <br/>   from the coasts of Elishah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_8">  <sup>8</sup>Men of Sidon and Arvad were your oarsmen; <br/>   your skilled men, Tyre, were aboard as your sailors. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_9">  <sup>9</sup>Veteran craftsmen of Byblos were on board <br/>   as shipwrights to caulk your seams. <br/>  All the ships of the sea and their sailors <br/>   came alongside to trade for your wares. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_10">  <sup>10</sup>“ ‘Men of Persia, Lydia and Put <br/>   served as soldiers in your army. <br/>  They hung their shields and helmets on your walls, <br/>   bringing you splendor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_11">  <sup>11</sup>Men of Arvad and Helek <br/>   guarded your walls on every side; <br/>  men of Gammad <br/>   were in your towers. <br/>  They hung their shields around your walls; <br/>   they brought your beauty to perfection. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_12"> <sup>12</sup>“ ‘Tarshish did business with you because of your great wealth of goods; they exchanged silver, iron, tin and lead for your merchandise. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Greece, Tubal and Meshek did business with you; they traded human beings and articles of bronze for your wares. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_14"> <sup>14</sup>“ ‘Men of Beth Togarmah exchanged chariot horses, cavalry horses and mules for your merchandise. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_15"> <sup>15</sup>“ ‘The men of Rhodes<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew Dedan">⚓</a> traded with you, and many coastlands were your customers; they paid you with ivory tusks and ebony. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_16"> <sup>16</sup>“ ‘Aram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most Hebrew manuscripts; some Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac Edom">⚓</a> did business with you because of your many products; they exchanged turquoise, purple fabric, embroidered work, fine linen, coral and rubies for your merchandise. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘Judah and Israel traded with you; they exchanged wheat from Minnith and confections,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> honey, olive oil and balm for your wares. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_18"> <sup>18</sup>“ ‘Damascus did business with you because of your many products and great wealth of goods. They offered wine from Helbon, wool from Zahar </span>
<span class="verse exe_27_19"><sup>19</sup>and casks of wine from Izal in exchange for your wares: wrought iron, cassia and calamus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_20"> <sup>20</sup>“ ‘Dedan traded in saddle blankets with you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_21"> <sup>21</sup>“ ‘Arabia and all the princes of Kedar were your customers; they did business with you in lambs, rams and goats. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_22"> <sup>22</sup>“ ‘The merchants of Sheba and Raamah traded with you; for your merchandise they exchanged the finest of all kinds of spices and precious stones, and gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_23"> <sup>23</sup>“ ‘Harran, Kanneh and Eden and merchants of Sheba, Ashur and Kilmad traded with you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_27_24"><sup>24</sup>In your marketplace they traded with you beautiful garments, blue fabric, embroidered work and multicolored rugs with cords twisted and tightly knotted. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_25">  <sup>25</sup>“ ‘The ships of Tarshish serve <br/>   as carriers for your wares. <br/>  You are filled with heavy cargo <br/>   as you sail the sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_26">  <sup>26</sup>Your oarsmen take you <br/>   out to the high seas. <br/>  But the east wind will break you to pieces <br/>   far out at sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_27">  <sup>27</sup>Your wealth, merchandise and wares, <br/>   your mariners, sailors and shipwrights, <br/>  your merchants and all your soldiers, <br/>   and everyone else on board <br/>  will sink into the heart of the sea <br/>   on the day of your shipwreck. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_28">  <sup>28</sup>The shorelands will quake <br/>   when your sailors cry out. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_29">  <sup>29</sup>All who handle the oars <br/>   will abandon their ships; <br/>  the mariners and all the sailors <br/>   will stand on the shore. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_30">  <sup>30</sup>They will raise their voice <br/>   and cry bitterly over you; <br/>  they will sprinkle dust on their heads <br/>   and roll in ashes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_31">  <sup>31</sup>They will shave their heads because of you <br/>   and will put on sackcloth. <br/>  They will weep over you with anguish of soul <br/>   and with bitter mourning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_32">  <sup>32</sup>As they wail and mourn over you, <br/>   they will take up a lament concerning you: <br/>  “Who was ever silenced like Tyre, <br/>   surrounded by the sea?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_33">  <sup>33</sup>When your merchandise went out on the seas, <br/>   you satisfied many nations; <br/>  with your great wealth and your wares <br/>   you enriched the kings of the earth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_34">  <sup>34</sup>Now you are shattered by the sea <br/>   in the depths of the waters; <br/>  your wares and all your company <br/>   have gone down with you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_35">  <sup>35</sup>All who live in the coastlands <br/>   are appalled at you; <br/>  their kings shudder with horror <br/>   and their faces are distorted with fear. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_27_36">  <sup>36</sup>The merchants among the nations scoff at you; <br/>   you have come to a horrible end <br/>   and will be no more.’ ” <br/></span>
