---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\28.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>28</h1><h3>A Prophecy Against the King of Tyre </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_28_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_28_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, say to the ruler of Tyre, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘In the pride of your heart <br/>   you say, “I am a god; <br/>  I sit on the throne of a god <br/>   in the heart of the seas.” <br/>  But you are a mere mortal and not a god, <br/>   though you think you are as wise as a god. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_3">  <sup>3</sup>Are you wiser than Daniel<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Danel , a man of renown in ancient literature">⚓</a> ? <br/>   Is no secret hidden from you? <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_4">  <sup>4</sup>By your wisdom and understanding <br/>   you have gained wealth for yourself <br/>  and amassed gold and silver <br/>   in your treasuries. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_5">  <sup>5</sup>By your great skill in trading <br/>   you have increased your wealth, <br/>  and because of your wealth <br/>   your heart has grown proud. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Because you think you are wise, <br/>   as wise as a god, <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_7">  <sup>7</sup>I am going to bring foreigners against you, <br/>   the most ruthless of nations; <br/>  they will draw their swords against your beauty and wisdom <br/>   and pierce your shining splendor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_8">  <sup>8</sup>They will bring you down to the pit, <br/>   and you will die a violent death <br/>   in the heart of the seas. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_9">  <sup>9</sup>Will you then say, “I am a god,” <br/>   in the presence of those who kill you? <br/>  You will be but a mortal, not a god, <br/>   in the hands of those who slay you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_10">  <sup>10</sup>You will die the death of the uncircumcised <br/>   at the hands of foreigners. <br/> I have spoken, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_11"> <sup>11</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_28_12"><sup>12</sup>“Son of man, take up a lament concerning the king of Tyre and say to him: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘You were the seal of perfection, <br/>   full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_13">  <sup>13</sup>You were in Eden, <br/>   the garden of God; <br/>  every precious stone adorned you: <br/>   carnelian, chrysolite and emerald, <br/>   topaz, onyx and jasper, <br/>   lapis lazuli, turquoise and beryl.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The precise identification of some of these precious stones is uncertain.">⚓</a><br/>  Your settings and mountings<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.">⚓</a> were made of gold; <br/>   on the day you were created they were prepared. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_14">  <sup>14</sup>You were anointed as a guardian cherub, <br/>   for so I ordained you. <br/>  You were on the holy mount of God; <br/>   you walked among the fiery stones. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_15">  <sup>15</sup>You were blameless in your ways <br/>   from the day you were created <br/>   till wickedness was found in you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_16">  <sup>16</sup>Through your widespread trade <br/>   you were filled with violence, <br/>   and you sinned. <br/>  So I drove you in disgrace from the mount of God, <br/>   and I expelled you, guardian cherub, <br/>   from among the fiery stones. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_17">  <sup>17</sup>Your heart became proud <br/>   on account of your beauty, <br/>  and you corrupted your wisdom <br/>   because of your splendor. <br/>  So I threw you to the earth; <br/>   I made a spectacle of you before kings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_18">  <sup>18</sup>By your many sins and dishonest trade <br/>   you have desecrated your sanctuaries. <br/>  So I made a fire come out from you, <br/>   and it consumed you, <br/>  and I reduced you to ashes on the ground <br/>   in the sight of all who were watching. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_19">  <sup>19</sup>All the nations who knew you <br/>   are appalled at you; <br/>  you have come to a horrible end <br/>   and will be no more.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Prophecy Against Sidon </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_28_20"> <sup>20</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_28_21"><sup>21</sup>“Son of man, set your face against Sidon; prophesy against her </span>
<span class="verse exe_28_22"><sup>22</sup>and say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘I am against you, Sidon, <br/>   and among you I will display my glory. <br/>  You will know that I am the Lord, <br/>   when I inflict punishment on you <br/>   and within you am proved to be holy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_23">  <sup>23</sup>I will send a plague upon you <br/>   and make blood flow in your streets. <br/>  The slain will fall within you, <br/>   with the sword against you on every side. <br/>  Then you will know that I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_24"> <sup>24</sup>“ ‘No longer will the people of Israel have malicious neighbors who are painful briers and sharp thorns. Then they will know that I am the Sovereign Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_28_25"> <sup>25</sup>“ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: When I gather the people of Israel from the nations where they have been scattered, I will be proved holy through them in the sight of the nations. Then they will live in their own land, which I gave to my servant Jacob. </span>
<span class="verse exe_28_26"><sup>26</sup>They will live there in safety and will build houses and plant vineyards; they will live in safety when I inflict punishment on all their neighbors who maligned them. Then they will know that I am the Lord their God.’ ” <br/></span>
