---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\29.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>29</h1><p>Judgment on Pharaoh </p><h3>A Prophecy Against Egypt </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_29_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the tenth year, in the tenth month on the twelfth day, the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt and prophesy against him and against all Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_3"><sup>3</sup>Speak to him and say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, <br/>   you great monster lying among your streams. <br/>  You say, “The Nile belongs to me; <br/>   I made it for myself.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_29_4">  <sup>4</sup>But I will put hooks in your jaws <br/>   and make the fish of your streams stick to your scales. <br/>  I will pull you out from among your streams, <br/>   with all the fish sticking to your scales. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_29_5">  <sup>5</sup>I will leave you in the desert, <br/>   you and all the fish of your streams. <br/>  You will fall on the open field <br/>   and not be gathered or picked up. <br/>  I will give you as food <br/>   to the beasts of the earth and the birds of the sky. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_29_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then all who live in Egypt will know that I am the Lord. <br/> “ ‘You have been a staff of reed for the people of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_7"><sup>7</sup>When they grasped you with their hands, you splintered and you tore open their shoulders; when they leaned on you, you broke and their backs were wrenched.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Syriac (see also Septuagint and Vulgate); Hebrew and you caused their backs to stand">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_29_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will bring a sword against you and kill both man and beast. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_9"><sup>9</sup>Egypt will become a desolate wasteland. Then they will know that I am the Lord. <br/> “ ‘Because you said, “The Nile is mine; I made it,” </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_10"><sup>10</sup>therefore I am against you and against your streams, and I will make the land of Egypt a ruin and a desolate waste from Migdol to Aswan, as far as the border of Cush.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the upper Nile region">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse exe_29_11"><sup>11</sup>The foot of neither man nor beast will pass through it; no one will live there for forty years. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_12"><sup>12</sup>I will make the land of Egypt desolate among devastated lands, and her cities will lie desolate forty years among ruined cities. And I will disperse the Egyptians among the nations and scatter them through the countries. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_29_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘Yet this is what the Sovereign Lord says: At the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the nations where they were scattered. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_14"><sup>14</sup>I will bring them back from captivity and return them to Upper Egypt, the land of their ancestry. There they will be a lowly kingdom. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_15"><sup>15</sup>It will be the lowliest of kingdoms and will never again exalt itself above the other nations. I will make it so weak that it will never again rule over the nations. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_16"><sup>16</sup>Egypt will no longer be a source of confidence for the people of Israel but will be a reminder of their sin in turning to her for help. Then they will know that I am the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>Nebuchadnezzar’s Reward </p></div>
<span class="verse exe_29_17"> <sup>17</sup>In the twenty-seventh year, in the first month on the first day, the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_18"><sup>18</sup>“Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon drove his army in a hard campaign against Tyre; every head was rubbed bare and every shoulder made raw. Yet he and his army got no reward from the campaign he led against Tyre. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_19"><sup>19</sup>Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am going to give Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he will carry off its wealth. He will loot and plunder the land as pay for his army. </span>
<span class="verse exe_29_20"><sup>20</sup>I have given him Egypt as a reward for his efforts because he and his army did it for me, declares the Sovereign Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_29_21"> <sup>21</sup>“On that day I will make a horn<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="here symbolizes strength.">⚓</a> grow for the Israelites, and I will open your mouth among them. Then they will know that I am the Lord.” <br/></span>
