---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\30.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1><p>A Lament Over Egypt </p></div>
<span class="verse exe_30_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_30_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, prophesy and say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘Wail and say, <br/>   “Alas for that day!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_3">  <sup>3</sup>For the day is near, <br/>   the day of the Lord is near— <br/>  a day of clouds, <br/>   a time of doom for the nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_4">  <sup>4</sup>A sword will come against Egypt, <br/>   and anguish will come upon Cush.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the upper Nile region; also in verses 5 and 9">⚓</a><br/>  When the slain fall in Egypt, <br/>   her wealth will be carried away <br/>   and her foundations torn down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_5"><sup>5</sup>Cush and Libya, Lydia and all Arabia, Kub and the people of the covenant land will fall by the sword along with Egypt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_6"> <sup>6</sup>“ ‘This is what the Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘The allies of Egypt will fall <br/>   and her proud strength will fail. <br/>  From Migdol to Aswan <br/>   they will fall by the sword within her, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Sovereign Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_7">  <sup>7</sup>“ ‘They will be desolate <br/>   among desolate lands, <br/>  and their cities will lie <br/>   among ruined cities. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_8">  <sup>8</sup>Then they will know that I am the Lord, <br/>   when I set fire to Egypt <br/>   and all her helpers are crushed. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_9"> <sup>9</sup>“ ‘On that day messengers will go out from me in ships to frighten Cush out of her complacency. Anguish will take hold of them on the day of Egypt’s doom, for it is sure to come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘I will put an end to the hordes of Egypt <br/>   by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_11">  <sup>11</sup>He and his army—the most ruthless of nations— <br/>   will be brought in to destroy the land. <br/>  They will draw their swords against Egypt <br/>   and fill the land with the slain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_12">  <sup>12</sup>I will dry up the waters of the Nile <br/>   and sell the land to an evil nation; <br/>  by the hand of foreigners <br/>   I will lay waste the land and everything in it. <br/> I the Lord have spoken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_13"> <sup>13</sup>“ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘I will destroy the idols <br/>   and put an end to the images in Memphis. <br/>  No longer will there be a prince in Egypt, <br/>   and I will spread fear throughout the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_14">  <sup>14</sup>I will lay waste Upper Egypt, <br/>   set fire to Zoan <br/>   and inflict punishment on Thebes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_15">  <sup>15</sup>I will pour out my wrath on Pelusium, <br/>   the stronghold of Egypt, <br/>   and wipe out the hordes of Thebes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_16">  <sup>16</sup>I will set fire to Egypt; <br/>   Pelusium will writhe in agony. <br/>  Thebes will be taken by storm; <br/>   Memphis will be in constant distress. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_17">  <sup>17</sup>The young men of Heliopolis and Bubastis <br/>   will fall by the sword, <br/>   and the cities themselves will go into captivity. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_18">  <sup>18</sup>Dark will be the day at Tahpanhes <br/>   when I break the yoke of Egypt; <br/>   there her proud strength will come to an end. <br/>  She will be covered with clouds, <br/>   and her villages will go into captivity. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_30_19">  <sup>19</sup>So I will inflict punishment on Egypt, <br/>   and they will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>Pharaoh’s Arms Are Broken </p></div>
<span class="verse exe_30_20"> <sup>20</sup>In the eleventh year, in the first month on the seventh day, the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_30_21"><sup>21</sup>“Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt. It has not been bound up to be healed or put in a splint so that it may become strong enough to hold a sword. </span>
<span class="verse exe_30_22"><sup>22</sup>Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt. I will break both his arms, the good arm as well as the broken one, and make the sword fall from his hand. </span>
<span class="verse exe_30_23"><sup>23</sup>I will disperse the Egyptians among the nations and scatter them through the countries. </span>
<span class="verse exe_30_24"><sup>24</sup>I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put my sword in his hand, but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan before him like a mortally wounded man. </span>
<span class="verse exe_30_25"><sup>25</sup>I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh will fall limp. Then they will know that I am the Lord, when I put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he brandishes it against Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse exe_30_26"><sup>26</sup>I will disperse the Egyptians among the nations and scatter them through the countries. Then they will know that I am the Lord.” <br/></span>
