---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\31.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>31</h1><p>Pharaoh as a Felled Cedar of Lebanon </p></div>
<span class="verse exe_31_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the eleventh year, in the third month on the first day, the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_31_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to his hordes: <br/>  “ ‘Who can be compared with you in majesty? <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_3">  <sup>3</sup>Consider Assyria, once a cedar in Lebanon, <br/>   with beautiful branches overshadowing the forest; <br/>  it towered on high, <br/>   its top above the thick foliage. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_4">  <sup>4</sup>The waters nourished it, <br/>   deep springs made it grow tall; <br/>  their streams flowed <br/>   all around its base <br/>  and sent their channels <br/>   to all the trees of the field. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_5">  <sup>5</sup>So it towered higher <br/>   than all the trees of the field; <br/>  its boughs increased <br/>   and its branches grew long, <br/>   spreading because of abundant waters. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_6">  <sup>6</sup>All the birds of the sky <br/>   nested in its boughs, <br/>  all the animals of the wild <br/>   gave birth under its branches; <br/>  all the great nations <br/>   lived in its shade. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_7">  <sup>7</sup>It was majestic in beauty, <br/>   with its spreading boughs, <br/>  for its roots went down <br/>   to abundant waters. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_8">  <sup>8</sup>The cedars in the garden of God <br/>   could not rival it, <br/>  nor could the junipers <br/>   equal its boughs, <br/>  nor could the plane trees <br/>   compare with its branches— <br/>  no tree in the garden of God <br/>   could match its beauty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_9">  <sup>9</sup>I made it beautiful <br/>   with abundant branches, <br/>  the envy of all the trees of Eden <br/>   in the garden of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Because the great cedar towered over the thick foliage, and because it was proud of its height, </span>
<span class="verse exe_31_11"><sup>11</sup>I gave it into the hands of the ruler of the nations, for him to deal with according to its wickedness. I cast it aside, </span>
<span class="verse exe_31_12"><sup>12</sup>and the most ruthless of foreign nations cut it down and left it. Its boughs fell on the mountains and in all the valleys; its branches lay broken in all the ravines of the land. All the nations of the earth came out from under its shade and left it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_31_13"><sup>13</sup>All the birds settled on the fallen tree, and all the wild animals lived among its branches. </span>
<span class="verse exe_31_14"><sup>14</sup>Therefore no other trees by the waters are ever to tower proudly on high, lifting their tops above the thick foliage. No other trees so well-watered are ever to reach such a height; they are all destined for death, for the earth below, among mortals who go down to the realm of the dead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_15"> <sup>15</sup>“ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: On the day it was brought down to the realm of the dead I covered the deep springs with mourning for it; I held back its streams, and its abundant waters were restrained. Because of it I clothed Lebanon with gloom, and all the trees of the field withered away. </span>
<span class="verse exe_31_16"><sup>16</sup>I made the nations tremble at the sound of its fall when I brought it down to the realm of the dead to be with those who go down to the pit. Then all the trees of Eden, the choicest and best of Lebanon, the well-watered trees, were consoled in the earth below. </span>
<span class="verse exe_31_17"><sup>17</sup>They too, like the great cedar, had gone down to the realm of the dead, to those killed by the sword, along with the armed men who lived in its shade among the nations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_31_18"> <sup>18</sup>“ ‘Which of the trees of Eden can be compared with you in splendor and majesty? Yet you, too, will be brought down with the trees of Eden to the earth below; you will lie among the uncircumcised, with those killed by the sword. <br/> “ ‘This is Pharaoh and all his hordes, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
