---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\32.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>32</h1><p>A Lament Over Pharaoh </p></div>
<span class="verse exe_32_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month on the first day, the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, take up a lament concerning Pharaoh king of Egypt and say to him: <br/>  “ ‘You are like a lion among the nations; <br/>   you are like a monster in the seas <br/>  thrashing about in your streams, <br/>   churning the water with your feet <br/>   and muddying the streams. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_3"> <sup>3</sup>“ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘With a great throng of people <br/>   I will cast my net over you, <br/>   and they will haul you up in my net. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_4">  <sup>4</sup>I will throw you on the land <br/>   and hurl you on the open field. <br/>  I will let all the birds of the sky settle on you <br/>   and all the animals of the wild gorge themselves on you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_5">  <sup>5</sup>I will spread your flesh on the mountains <br/>   and fill the valleys with your remains. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_6">  <sup>6</sup>I will drench the land with your flowing blood <br/>   all the way to the mountains, <br/>   and the ravines will be filled with your flesh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_7">  <sup>7</sup>When I snuff you out, I will cover the heavens <br/>   and darken their stars; <br/>  I will cover the sun with a cloud, <br/>   and the moon will not give its light. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_8">  <sup>8</sup>All the shining lights in the heavens <br/>   I will darken over you; <br/>   I will bring darkness over your land, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Sovereign Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_9">  <sup>9</sup>I will trouble the hearts of many peoples <br/>   when I bring about your destruction among the nations, <br/>   among<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint bring you into captivity among the nations,  / to">⚓</a> lands you have not known. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_10">  <sup>10</sup>I will cause many peoples to be appalled at you, <br/>   and their kings will shudder with horror because of you <br/>   when I brandish my sword before them. <br/>  On the day of your downfall <br/>   each of them will tremble <br/>   every moment for his life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_11"> <sup>11</sup>“ ‘For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: <br/>  “ ‘The sword of the king of Babylon <br/>   will come against you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_12">  <sup>12</sup>I will cause your hordes to fall <br/>   by the swords of mighty men— <br/>   the most ruthless of all nations. <br/>  They will shatter the pride of Egypt, <br/>   and all her hordes will be overthrown. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_13">  <sup>13</sup>I will destroy all her cattle <br/>   from beside abundant waters <br/>  no longer to be stirred by the foot of man <br/>   or muddied by the hooves of cattle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_14">  <sup>14</sup>Then I will let her waters settle <br/>   and make her streams flow like oil, <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Sovereign Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_15">  <sup>15</sup>When I make Egypt desolate <br/>   and strip the land of everything in it, <br/>  when I strike down all who live there, <br/>   then they will know that I am the Lord.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_16"> <sup>16</sup>“This is the lament they will chant for her. The daughters of the nations will chant it; for Egypt and all her hordes they will chant it, declares the Sovereign Lord.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><p>Egypt’s Descent Into the Realm of the Dead </p></div>
<span class="verse exe_32_17"> <sup>17</sup>In the twelfth year, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_18"><sup>18</sup>“Son of man, wail for the hordes of Egypt and consign to the earth below both her and the daughters of mighty nations, along with those who go down to the pit. </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_19"><sup>19</sup>Say to them, ‘Are you more favored than others? Go down and be laid among the uncircumcised.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_20"><sup>20</sup>They will fall among those killed by the sword. The sword is drawn; let her be dragged off with all her hordes. </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_21"><sup>21</sup>From within the realm of the dead the mighty leaders will say of Egypt and her allies, ‘They have come down and they lie with the uncircumcised, with those killed by the sword.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_22"> <sup>22</sup>“Assyria is there with her whole army; she is surrounded by the graves of all her slain, all who have fallen by the sword. </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_23"><sup>23</sup>Their graves are in the depths of the pit and her army lies around her grave. All who had spread terror in the land of the living are slain, fallen by the sword. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_24"> <sup>24</sup>“Elam is there, with all her hordes around her grave. All of them are slain, fallen by the sword. All who had spread terror in the land of the living went down uncircumcised to the earth below. They bear their shame with those who go down to the pit. </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_25"><sup>25</sup>A bed is made for her among the slain, with all her hordes around her grave. All of them are uncircumcised, killed by the sword. Because their terror had spread in the land of the living, they bear their shame with those who go down to the pit; they are laid among the slain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_26"> <sup>26</sup>“Meshek and Tubal are there, with all their hordes around their graves. All of them are uncircumcised, killed by the sword because they spread their terror in the land of the living. </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_27"><sup>27</sup>But they do not lie with the fallen warriors of old,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew warriors who were uncircumcised">⚓</a> who went down to the realm of the dead with their weapons of war—their swords placed under their heads and their shields<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text punishment">⚓</a> resting on their bones—though these warriors also had terrorized the land of the living. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_28"> <sup>28</sup>“You too, Pharaoh, will be broken and will lie among the uncircumcised, with those killed by the sword. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_29"> <sup>29</sup>“Edom is there, her kings and all her princes; despite their power, they are laid with those killed by the sword. They lie with the uncircumcised, with those who go down to the pit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_30"> <sup>30</sup>“All the princes of the north and all the Sidonians are there; they went down with the slain in disgrace despite the terror caused by their power. They lie uncircumcised with those killed by the sword and bear their shame with those who go down to the pit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_32_31"> <sup>31</sup>“Pharaoh—he and all his army—will see them and he will be consoled for all his hordes that were killed by the sword, declares the Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_32_32"><sup>32</sup>Although I had him spread terror in the land of the living, Pharaoh and all his hordes will be laid among the uncircumcised, with those killed by the sword, declares the Sovereign Lord.” <br/></span>
