---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\34.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>34</h1><h3>The Lord Will Be Israel’s Shepherd </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_34_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy and say to them: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Woe to you shepherds of Israel who only take care of yourselves! Should not shepherds take care of the flock? </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_3"><sup>3</sup>You eat the curds, clothe yourselves with the wool and slaughter the choice animals, but you do not take care of the flock. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_4"><sup>4</sup>You have not strengthened the weak or healed the sick or bound up the injured. You have not brought back the strays or searched for the lost. You have ruled them harshly and brutally. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_5"><sup>5</sup>So they were scattered because there was no shepherd, and when they were scattered they became food for all the wild animals. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_6"><sup>6</sup>My sheep wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill. They were scattered over the whole earth, and no one searched or looked for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_34_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_8"><sup>8</sup>As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, because my flock lacks a shepherd and so has been plundered and has become food for all the wild animals, and because my shepherds did not search for my flock but cared for themselves rather than for my flock, </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_9"><sup>9</sup>therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord: </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_10"><sup>10</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am against the shepherds and will hold them accountable for my flock. I will remove them from tending the flock so that the shepherds can no longer feed themselves. I will rescue my flock from their mouths, and it will no longer be food for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_34_11"> <sup>11</sup>“ ‘For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I myself will search for my sheep and look after them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_12"><sup>12</sup>As a shepherd looks after his scattered flock when he is with them, so will I look after my sheep. I will rescue them from all the places where they were scattered on a day of clouds and darkness. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_13"><sup>13</sup>I will bring them out from the nations and gather them from the countries, and I will bring them into their own land. I will pasture them on the mountains of Israel, in the ravines and in all the settlements in the land. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_14"><sup>14</sup>I will tend them in a good pasture, and the mountain heights of Israel will be their grazing land. There they will lie down in good grazing land, and there they will feed in a rich pasture on the mountains of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_15"><sup>15</sup>I myself will tend my sheep and have them lie down, declares the Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_16"><sup>16</sup>I will search for the lost and bring back the strays. I will bind up the injured and strengthen the weak, but the sleek and the strong I will destroy. I will shepherd the flock with justice. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_34_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘As for you, my flock, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will judge between one sheep and another, and between rams and goats. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_18"><sup>18</sup>Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture? Must you also trample the rest of your pasture with your feet? Is it not enough for you to drink clear water? Must you also muddy the rest with your feet? </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_19"><sup>19</sup>Must my flock feed on what you have trampled and drink what you have muddied with your feet? <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_34_20"> <sup>20</sup>“ ‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says to them: See, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_21"><sup>21</sup>Because you shove with flank and shoulder, butting all the weak sheep with your horns until you have driven them away, </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_22"><sup>22</sup>I will save my flock, and they will no longer be plundered. I will judge between one sheep and another. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_23"><sup>23</sup>I will place over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he will tend them; he will tend them and be their shepherd. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_24"><sup>24</sup>I the Lord will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them. I the Lord have spoken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_34_25"> <sup>25</sup>“ ‘I will make a covenant of peace with them and rid the land of savage beasts so that they may live in the wilderness and sleep in the forests in safety. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_26"><sup>26</sup>I will make them and the places surrounding my hill a blessing.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or I will cause them and the places surrounding my hill to be named in blessings (see Gen. 48:20); or I will cause them and the places surrounding my hill to be seen as blessed">⚓</a> I will send down showers in season; there will be showers of blessing. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_27"><sup>27</sup>The trees will yield their fruit and the ground will yield its crops; the people will be secure in their land. They will know that I am the Lord, when I break the bars of their yoke and rescue them from the hands of those who enslaved them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_28"><sup>28</sup>They will no longer be plundered by the nations, nor will wild animals devour them. They will live in safety, and no one will make them afraid. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_29"><sup>29</sup>I will provide for them a land renowned for its crops, and they will no longer be victims of famine in the land or bear the scorn of the nations. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_30"><sup>30</sup>Then they will know that I, the Lord their God, am with them and that they, the Israelites, are my people, declares the Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_34_31"><sup>31</sup>You are my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, declares the Sovereign Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
