---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\35.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>35</h1><h3>A Prophecy Against Edom </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_35_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, set your face against Mount Seir; prophesy against it </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_3"><sup>3</sup>and say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am against you, Mount Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against you and make you a desolate waste. </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_4"><sup>4</sup>I will turn your towns into ruins and you will be desolate. Then you will know that I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_35_5"> <sup>5</sup>“ ‘Because you harbored an ancient hostility and delivered the Israelites over to the sword at the time of their calamity, the time their punishment reached its climax, </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_6"><sup>6</sup>therefore as surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I will give you over to bloodshed and it will pursue you. Since you did not hate bloodshed, bloodshed will pursue you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_7"><sup>7</sup>I will make Mount Seir a desolate waste and cut off from it all who come and go. </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_8"><sup>8</sup>I will fill your mountains with the slain; those killed by the sword will fall on your hills and in your valleys and in all your ravines. </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_9"><sup>9</sup>I will make you desolate forever; your towns will not be inhabited. Then you will know that I am the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_35_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘Because you have said, “These two nations and countries will be ours and we will take possession of them,” even though I the Lord was there, </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_11"><sup>11</sup>therefore as surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I will treat you in accordance with the anger and jealousy you showed in your hatred of them and I will make myself known among them when I judge you. </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_12"><sup>12</sup>Then you will know that I the Lord have heard all the contemptible things you have said against the mountains of Israel. You said, “They have been laid waste and have been given over to us to devour.” </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_13"><sup>13</sup>You boasted against me and spoke against me without restraint, and I heard it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_14"><sup>14</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord says: While the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate. </span>
<span class="verse exe_35_15"><sup>15</sup>Because you rejoiced when the inheritance of Israel became desolate, that is how I will treat you. You will be desolate, Mount Seir, you and all of Edom. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
