---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\37.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>37</h1><h3>The Valley of Dry Bones </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_37_1"> <sup>1</sup>The hand of the Lord was on me, and he brought me out by the Spirit of the Lord and set me in the middle of a valley; it was full of bones. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_2"><sup>2</sup>He led me back and forth among them, and I saw a great many bones on the floor of the valley, bones that were very dry. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_3"><sup>3</sup>He asked me, “Son of man, can these bones live?” <br/> I said, “Sovereign Lord, you alone know.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_37_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then he said to me, “Prophesy to these bones and say to them, ‘Dry bones, hear the word of the Lord! </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_5"><sup>5</sup>This is what the Sovereign Lord says to these bones: I will make breath<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for this word can also mean wind or spirit (see verses 6-14).">⚓</a> enter you, and you will come to life. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_6"><sup>6</sup>I will attach tendons to you and make flesh come upon you and cover you with skin; I will put breath in you, and you will come to life. Then you will know that I am the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_37_7"> <sup>7</sup>So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I was prophesying, there was a noise, a rattling sound, and the bones came together, bone to bone. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_8"><sup>8</sup>I looked, and tendons and flesh appeared on them and skin covered them, but there was no breath in them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_37_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then he said to me, “Prophesy to the breath; prophesy, son of man, and say to it, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Come, breath, from the four winds and breathe into these slain, that they may live.’ ” </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_10"><sup>10</sup>So I prophesied as he commanded me, and breath entered them; they came to life and stood up on their feet—a vast army. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_37_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then he said to me: “Son of man, these bones are the people of Israel. They say, ‘Our bones are dried up and our hope is gone; we are cut off.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_12"><sup>12</sup>Therefore prophesy and say to them: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: My people, I am going to open your graves and bring you up from them; I will bring you back to the land of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_13"><sup>13</sup>Then you, my people, will know that I am the Lord, when I open your graves and bring you up from them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_14"><sup>14</sup>I will put my Spirit in you and you will live, and I will settle you in your own land. Then you will know that I the Lord have spoken, and I have done it, declares the Lord.’ ” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>One Nation Under One King </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_37_15"> <sup>15</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_16"><sup>16</sup>“Son of man, take a stick of wood and write on it, ‘Belonging to Judah and the Israelites associated with him.’ Then take another stick of wood, and write on it, ‘Belonging to Joseph (that is, to Ephraim) and all the Israelites associated with him.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_17"><sup>17</sup>Join them together into one stick so that they will become one in your hand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_37_18"> <sup>18</sup>“When your people ask you, ‘Won’t you tell us what you mean by this?’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_19"><sup>19</sup>say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am going to take the stick of Joseph—which is in Ephraim’s hand—and of the Israelite tribes associated with him, and join it to Judah’s stick. I will make them into a single stick of wood, and they will become one in my hand.’ </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_20"><sup>20</sup>Hold before their eyes the sticks you have written on </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_21"><sup>21</sup>and say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will take the Israelites out of the nations where they have gone. I will gather them from all around and bring them back into their own land. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_22"><sup>22</sup>I will make them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel. There will be one king over all of them and they will never again be two nations or be divided into two kingdoms. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_23"><sup>23</sup>They will no longer defile themselves with their idols and vile images or with any of their offenses, for I will save them from all their sinful backsliding,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many Hebrew manuscripts (see also Septuagint); most Hebrew manuscripts all their dwelling places where they sinned">⚓</a> and I will cleanse them. They will be my people, and I will be their God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_37_24"> <sup>24</sup>“ ‘My servant David will be king over them, and they will all have one shepherd. They will follow my laws and be careful to keep my decrees. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_25"><sup>25</sup>They will live in the land I gave to my servant Jacob, the land where your ancestors lived. They and their children and their children’s children will live there forever, and David my servant will be their prince forever. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_26"><sup>26</sup>I will make a covenant of peace with them; it will be an everlasting covenant. I will establish them and increase their numbers, and I will put my sanctuary among them forever. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_27"><sup>27</sup>My dwelling place will be with them; I will be their God, and they will be my people. </span>
<span class="verse exe_37_28"><sup>28</sup>Then the nations will know that I the Lord make Israel holy, when my sanctuary is among them forever.’ ” <br/></span>
