---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\38.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>38</h1><h3>The Lord’s Great Victory Over the Nations </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_38_1"> <sup>1</sup>The word of the Lord came to me: </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_2"><sup>2</sup>“Son of man, set your face against Gog, of the land of Magog, the chief prince of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the prince of Rosh,">⚓</a> Meshek and Tubal; prophesy against him </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_3"><sup>3</sup>and say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I am against you, Gog, chief prince of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Gog, prince of Rosh,">⚓</a> Meshek and Tubal. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_4"><sup>4</sup>I will turn you around, put hooks in your jaws and bring you out with your whole army—your horses, your horsemen fully armed, and a great horde with large and small shields, all of them brandishing their swords. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_5"><sup>5</sup>Persia, Cush<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the upper Nile region">⚓</a> and Put will be with them, all with shields and helmets, </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_6"><sup>6</sup>also Gomer with all its troops, and Beth Togarmah from the far north with all its troops—the many nations with you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_38_7"> <sup>7</sup>“ ‘Get ready; be prepared, you and all the hordes gathered about you, and take command of them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_8"><sup>8</sup>After many days you will be called to arms. In future years you will invade a land that has recovered from war, whose people were gathered from many nations to the mountains of Israel, which had long been desolate. They had been brought out from the nations, and now all of them live in safety. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_9"><sup>9</sup>You and all your troops and the many nations with you will go up, advancing like a storm; you will be like a cloud covering the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_38_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: On that day thoughts will come into your mind and you will devise an evil scheme. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_11"><sup>11</sup>You will say, “I will invade a land of unwalled villages; I will attack a peaceful and unsuspecting people—all of them living without walls and without gates and bars. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_12"><sup>12</sup>I will plunder and loot and turn my hand against the resettled ruins and the people gathered from the nations, rich in livestock and goods, living at the center of the land.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for this phrase means the navel of the earth .">⚓</a> ” </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_13"><sup>13</sup>Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish and all her villages<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or her strong lions">⚓</a> will say to you, “Have you come to plunder? Have you gathered your hordes to loot, to carry off silver and gold, to take away livestock and goods and to seize much plunder?” ’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_38_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say to Gog: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: In that day, when my people Israel are living in safety, will you not take notice of it? </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_15"><sup>15</sup>You will come from your place in the far north, you and many nations with you, all of them riding on horses, a great horde, a mighty army. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_16"><sup>16</sup>You will advance against my people Israel like a cloud that covers the land. In days to come, Gog, I will bring you against my land, so that the nations may know me when I am proved holy through you before their eyes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_38_17"> <sup>17</sup>“ ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: You are the one I spoke of in former days by my servants the prophets of Israel. At that time they prophesied for years that I would bring you against them. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_18"><sup>18</sup>This is what will happen in that day: When Gog attacks the land of Israel, my hot anger will be aroused, declares the Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_19"><sup>19</sup>In my zeal and fiery wrath I declare that at that time there shall be a great earthquake in the land of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_20"><sup>20</sup>The fish in the sea, the birds in the sky, the beasts of the field, every creature that moves along the ground, and all the people on the face of the earth will tremble at my presence. The mountains will be overturned, the cliffs will crumble and every wall will fall to the ground. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_21"><sup>21</sup>I will summon a sword against Gog on all my mountains, declares the Sovereign Lord. Every man’s sword will be against his brother. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_22"><sup>22</sup>I will execute judgment on him with plague and bloodshed; I will pour down torrents of rain, hailstones and burning sulfur on him and on his troops and on the many nations with him. </span>
<span class="verse exe_38_23"><sup>23</sup>And so I will show my greatness and my holiness, and I will make myself known in the sight of many nations. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’ <br/></span>
