---
translation: NIV
group: MAJOR PROPHETS
bookName: Ezekiel 
bookNumber: 26
audio: \Audio\NIV\exe\43.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>43</h1><h3>God’s Glory Returns to the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_43_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the man brought me to the gate facing east, </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_2"><sup>2</sup>and I saw the glory of the God of Israel coming from the east. His voice was like the roar of rushing waters, and the land was radiant with his glory. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_3"><sup>3</sup>The vision I saw was like the vision I had seen when he<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts and Vulgate; most Hebrew manuscripts I">⚓</a> came to destroy the city and like the visions I had seen by the Kebar River, and I fell facedown. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_4"><sup>4</sup>The glory of the Lord entered the temple through the gate facing east. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_5"><sup>5</sup>Then the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court, and the glory of the Lord filled the temple. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_43_6"> <sup>6</sup>While the man was standing beside me, I heard someone speaking to me from inside the temple. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_7"><sup>7</sup>He said: “Son of man, this is the place of my throne and the place for the soles of my feet. This is where I will live among the Israelites forever. The people of Israel will never again defile my holy name—neither they nor their kings—by their prostitution and the funeral offerings<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the memorial monuments ; also in verse 9">⚓</a> for their kings at their death.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or their high places">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse exe_43_8"><sup>8</sup>When they placed their threshold next to my threshold and their doorposts beside my doorposts, with only a wall between me and them, they defiled my holy name by their detestable practices. So I destroyed them in my anger. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_9"><sup>9</sup>Now let them put away from me their prostitution and the funeral offerings for their kings, and I will live among them forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_43_10"> <sup>10</sup>“Son of man, describe the temple to the people of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their sins. Let them consider its perfection, </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_11"><sup>11</sup>and if they are ashamed of all they have done, make known to them the design of the temple—its arrangement, its exits and entrances—its whole design and all its regulations<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint; most Hebrew manuscripts regulations and its whole design">⚓</a> and laws. Write these down before them so that they may be faithful to its design and follow all its regulations. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_43_12"> <sup>12</sup>“This is the law of the temple: All the surrounding area on top of the mountain will be most holy. Such is the law of the temple. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Great Altar Restored </h3></div>
<span class="verse exe_43_13"> <sup>13</sup>“These are the measurements of the altar in long cubits,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 21 inches or about 53 centimeters; also in verses 14 and 17. The long cubit is the basic unit for linear measurement throughout Ezekiel 40–48.">⚓</a> that cubit being a cubit and a handbreadth: Its gutter is a cubit deep and a cubit wide, with a rim of one span<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 11 inches or about 27 centimeters">⚓</a> around the edge. And this is the height of the altar: </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_14"><sup>14</sup>From the gutter on the ground up to the lower ledge that goes around the altar it is two cubits high, and the ledge is a cubit wide.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 1/2 feet high and 1 3/4 feet wide or about 105 centimeters high and 53 centimeters wide">⚓</a> From this lower ledge to the upper ledge that goes around the altar it is four cubits high, and that ledge is also a cubit wide.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 7 feet high and 1 3/4 feet wide or about 2.1 meters high and 53 centimeters wide">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse exe_43_15"><sup>15</sup>Above that, the altar hearth is four cubits high, and four horns project upward from the hearth. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_16"><sup>16</sup>The altar hearth is square, twelve cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 21 feet or about 6.4 meters">⚓</a> long and twelve cubits wide. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_17"><sup>17</sup>The upper ledge also is square, fourteen cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 25 feet or about 7.4 meters">⚓</a> long and fourteen cubits wide. All around the altar is a gutter of one cubit with a rim of half a cubit.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 11 inches or about 27 centimeters">⚓</a> The steps of the altar face east.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_43_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then he said to me, “Son of man, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: These will be the regulations for sacrificing burnt offerings and splashing blood against the altar when it is built: </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_19"><sup>19</sup>You are to give a young bull as a sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering ; also in verses 21, 22 and 25">⚓</a> to the Levitical priests of the family of Zadok, who come near to minister before me, declares the Sovereign Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_20"><sup>20</sup>You are to take some of its blood and put it on the four horns of the altar and on the four corners of the upper ledge and all around the rim, and so purify the altar and make atonement for it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_21"><sup>21</sup>You are to take the bull for the sin offering and burn it in the designated part of the temple area outside the sanctuary. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_43_22"> <sup>22</sup>“On the second day you are to offer a male goat without defect for a sin offering, and the altar is to be purified as it was purified with the bull. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_23"><sup>23</sup>When you have finished purifying it, you are to offer a young bull and a ram from the flock, both without defect. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_24"><sup>24</sup>You are to offer them before the Lord, and the priests are to sprinkle salt on them and sacrifice them as a burnt offering to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exe_43_25"> <sup>25</sup>“For seven days you are to provide a male goat daily for a sin offering; you are also to provide a young bull and a ram from the flock, both without defect. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_26"><sup>26</sup>For seven days they are to make atonement for the altar and cleanse it; thus they will dedicate it. </span>
<span class="verse exe_43_27"><sup>27</sup>At the end of these days, from the eighth day on, the priests are to present your burnt offerings and fellowship offerings on the altar. Then I will accept you, declares the Sovereign Lord.” <br/></span>
