---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
audio: \Audio\NIV\ne\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Nehemiah’s Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The words of Nehemiah son of Hakaliah: <br/> In the month of Kislev in the twentieth year, while I was in the citadel of Susa, </span>
<span class="verse ne_1_2"><sup>2</sup>Hanani, one of my brothers, came from Judah with some other men, and I questioned them about the Jewish remnant that had survived the exile, and also about Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>They said to me, “Those who survived the exile and are back in the province are in great trouble and disgrace. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates have been burned with fire.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>When I heard these things, I sat down and wept. For some days I mourned and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven. </span>
<span class="verse ne_1_5"><sup>5</sup>Then I said: <br/> “Lord, the God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant of love with those who love him and keep his commandments, </span>
<span class="verse ne_1_6"><sup>6</sup>let your ear be attentive and your eyes open to hear the prayer your servant is praying before you day and night for your servants, the people of Israel. I confess the sins we Israelites, including myself and my father’s family, have committed against you. </span>
<span class="verse ne_1_7"><sup>7</sup>We have acted very wickedly toward you. We have not obeyed the commands, decrees and laws you gave your servant Moses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Remember the instruction you gave your servant Moses, saying, ‘If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the nations, </span>
<span class="verse ne_1_9"><sup>9</sup>but if you return to me and obey my commands, then even if your exiled people are at the farthest horizon, I will gather them from there and bring them to the place I have chosen as a dwelling for my Name.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>“They are your servants and your people, whom you redeemed by your great strength and your mighty hand. </span>
<span class="verse ne_1_11"><sup>11</sup>Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of this your servant and to the prayer of your servants who delight in revering your name. Give your servant success today by granting him favor in the presence of this man.” <br/> I was cupbearer to the king. <br/></span>
