---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
audio: \Audio\NIV\ne\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Artaxerxes Sends Nehemiah to Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the month of Nisan in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes, when wine was brought for him, I took the wine and gave it to the king. I had not been sad in his presence before, </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_2"><sup>2</sup>so the king asked me, “Why does your face look so sad when you are not ill? This can be nothing but sadness of heart.” <br/> I was very much afraid, </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_3"><sup>3</sup>but I said to the king, “May the king live forever! Why should my face not look sad when the city where my ancestors are buried lies in ruins, and its gates have been destroyed by fire?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>The king said to me, “What is it you want?” <br/> Then I prayed to the God of heaven, </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_5"><sup>5</sup>and I answered the king, “If it pleases the king and if your servant has found favor in his sight, let him send me to the city in Judah where my ancestors are buried so that I can rebuild it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then the king, with the queen sitting beside him, asked me, “How long will your journey take, and when will you get back?” It pleased the king to send me; so I set a time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>I also said to him, “If it pleases the king, may I have letters to the governors of Trans-Euphrates, so that they will provide me safe-conduct until I arrive in Judah? </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_8"><sup>8</sup>And may I have a letter to Asaph, keeper of the royal park, so he will give me timber to make beams for the gates of the citadel by the temple and for the city wall and for the residence I will occupy?” And because the gracious hand of my God was on me, the king granted my requests. </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_9"><sup>9</sup>So I went to the governors of Trans-Euphrates and gave them the king’s letters. The king had also sent army officers and cavalry with me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_2_10"> <sup>10</sup>When Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite official heard about this, they were very much disturbed that someone had come to promote the welfare of the Israelites. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Nehemiah Inspects Jerusalem’s Walls </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>I went to Jerusalem, and after staying there three days </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_12"><sup>12</sup>I set out during the night with a few others. I had not told anyone what my God had put in my heart to do for Jerusalem. There were no mounts with me except the one I was riding on. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>By night I went out through the Valley Gate toward the Jackal<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Serpent or Fig">⚓</a> Well and the Dung Gate, examining the walls of Jerusalem, which had been broken down, and its gates, which had been destroyed by fire. </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_14"><sup>14</sup>Then I moved on toward the Fountain Gate and the King’s Pool, but there was not enough room for my mount to get through; </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_15"><sup>15</sup>so I went up the valley by night, examining the wall. Finally, I turned back and reentered through the Valley Gate. </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_16"><sup>16</sup>The officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing, because as yet I had said nothing to the Jews or the priests or nobles or officials or any others who would be doing the work. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then I said to them, “You see the trouble we are in: Jerusalem lies in ruins, and its gates have been burned with fire. Come, let us rebuild the wall of Jerusalem, and we will no longer be in disgrace.” </span>
<span class="verse ne_2_18"><sup>18</sup>I also told them about the gracious hand of my God on me and what the king had said to me. <br/> They replied, “Let us start rebuilding.” So they began this good work. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>But when Sanballat the Horonite, Tobiah the Ammonite official and Geshem the Arab heard about it, they mocked and ridiculed us. “What is this you are doing?” they asked. “Are you rebelling against the king?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>I answered them by saying, “The God of heaven will give us success. We his servants will start rebuilding, but as for you, you have no share in Jerusalem or any claim or historic right to it.” <br/></span>
