---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
audio: \Audio\NIV\ne\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Builders of the Wall </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Eliashib the high priest and his fellow priests went to work and rebuilt the Sheep Gate. They dedicated it and set its doors in place, building as far as the Tower of the Hundred, which they dedicated, and as far as the Tower of Hananel. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_2"><sup>2</sup>The men of Jericho built the adjoining section, and Zakkur son of Imri built next to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_3_3"> <sup>3</sup>The Fish Gate was rebuilt by the sons of Hassenaah. They laid its beams and put its doors and bolts and bars in place. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Meremoth son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, repaired the next section. Next to him Meshullam son of Berekiah, the son of Meshezabel, made repairs, and next to him Zadok son of Baana also made repairs. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_5"><sup>5</sup>The next section was repaired by the men of Tekoa, but their nobles would not put their shoulders to the work under their supervisors.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or their Lord or the governor">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_3_6"> <sup>6</sup>The Jeshanah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Old">⚓</a> Gate was repaired by Joiada son of Paseah and Meshullam son of Besodeiah. They laid its beams and put its doors with their bolts and bars in place. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_7"><sup>7</sup>Next to them, repairs were made by men from Gibeon and Mizpah—Melatiah of Gibeon and Jadon of Meronoth—places under the authority of the governor of Trans-Euphrates. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_8"><sup>8</sup>Uzziel son of Harhaiah, one of the goldsmiths, repaired the next section; and Hananiah, one of the perfume-makers, made repairs next to that. They restored Jerusalem as far as the Broad Wall. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_9"><sup>9</sup>Rephaiah son of Hur, ruler of a half-district of Jerusalem, repaired the next section. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_10"><sup>10</sup>Adjoining this, Jedaiah son of Harumaph made repairs opposite his house, and Hattush son of Hashabneiah made repairs next to him. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_11"><sup>11</sup>Malkijah son of Harim and Hasshub son of Pahath-Moab repaired another section and the Tower of the Ovens. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_12"><sup>12</sup>Shallum son of Hallohesh, ruler of a half-district of Jerusalem, repaired the next section with the help of his daughters. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_3_13"> <sup>13</sup>The Valley Gate was repaired by Hanun and the residents of Zanoah. They rebuilt it and put its doors with their bolts and bars in place. They also repaired a thousand cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1,500 feet or about 450 meters">⚓</a> of the wall as far as the Dung Gate. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>The Dung Gate was repaired by Malkijah son of Rekab, ruler of the district of Beth Hakkerem. He rebuilt it and put its doors with their bolts and bars in place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>The Fountain Gate was repaired by Shallun son of Kol-Hozeh, ruler of the district of Mizpah. He rebuilt it, roofing it over and putting its doors and bolts and bars in place. He also repaired the wall of the Pool of Siloam,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Shelah, a variant of Shiloah, that is, Siloam">⚓</a> by the King’s Garden, as far as the steps going down from the City of David. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_16"><sup>16</sup>Beyond him, Nehemiah son of Azbuk, ruler of a half-district of Beth Zur, made repairs up to a point opposite the tombs<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint, some Vulgate manuscripts and Syriac tomb">⚓</a> of David, as far as the artificial pool and the House of the Heroes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_3_17"> <sup>17</sup>Next to him, the repairs were made by the Levites under Rehum son of Bani. Beside him, Hashabiah, ruler of half the district of Keilah, carried out repairs for his district. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_18"><sup>18</sup>Next to him, the repairs were made by their fellow Levites under Binnui<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Two Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac (see also Septuagint and verse 24); most Hebrew manuscripts Bavvai">⚓</a> son of Henadad, ruler of the other half-district of Keilah. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_19"><sup>19</sup>Next to him, Ezer son of Jeshua, ruler of Mizpah, repaired another section, from a point facing the ascent to the armory as far as the angle of the wall. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_20"><sup>20</sup>Next to him, Baruch son of Zabbai zealously repaired another section, from the angle to the entrance of the house of Eliashib the high priest. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_21"><sup>21</sup>Next to him, Meremoth son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, repaired another section, from the entrance of Eliashib’s house to the end of it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_3_22"> <sup>22</sup>The repairs next to him were made by the priests from the surrounding region. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_23"><sup>23</sup>Beyond them, Benjamin and Hasshub made repairs in front of their house; and next to them, Azariah son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah, made repairs beside his house. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_24"><sup>24</sup>Next to him, Binnui son of Henadad repaired another section, from Azariah’s house to the angle and the corner, </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_25"><sup>25</sup>and Palal son of Uzai worked opposite the angle and the tower projecting from the upper palace near the court of the guard. Next to him, Pedaiah son of Parosh </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_26"><sup>26</sup>and the temple servants living on the hill of Ophel made repairs up to a point opposite the Water Gate toward the east and the projecting tower. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_27"><sup>27</sup>Next to them, the men of Tekoa repaired another section, from the great projecting tower to the wall of Ophel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_3_28"> <sup>28</sup>Above the Horse Gate, the priests made repairs, each in front of his own house. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_29"><sup>29</sup>Next to them, Zadok son of Immer made repairs opposite his house. Next to him, Shemaiah son of Shekaniah, the guard at the East Gate, made repairs. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_30"><sup>30</sup>Next to him, Hananiah son of Shelemiah, and Hanun, the sixth son of Zalaph, repaired another section. Next to them, Meshullam son of Berekiah made repairs opposite his living quarters. </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_31"><sup>31</sup>Next to him, Malkijah, one of the goldsmiths, made repairs as far as the house of the temple servants and the merchants, opposite the Inspection Gate, and as far as the room above the corner; </span>
<span class="verse ne_3_32"><sup>32</sup>and between the room above the corner and the Sheep Gate the goldsmiths and merchants made repairs. <br/></span>
