---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
audio: \Audio\NIV\ne\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Opposition to the Rebuilding </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Sanballat heard that we were rebuilding the wall, he became angry and was greatly incensed. He ridiculed the Jews, </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_2"><sup>2</sup>and in the presence of his associates and the army of Samaria, he said, “What are those feeble Jews doing? Will they restore their wall? Will they offer sacrifices? Will they finish in a day? Can they bring the stones back to life from those heaps of rubble—burned as they are?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_3"> <sup>3</sup>Tobiah the Ammonite, who was at his side, said, “What they are building—even a fox climbing up on it would break down their wall of stones!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>Hear us, our God, for we are despised. Turn their insults back on their own heads. Give them over as plunder in a land of captivity. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_5"><sup>5</sup>Do not cover up their guilt or blot out their sins from your sight, for they have thrown insults in the face of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or have aroused your anger before">⚓</a> the builders. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>So we rebuilt the wall till all of it reached half its height, for the people worked with all their heart. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>But when Sanballat, Tobiah, the Arabs, the Ammonites and the people of Ashdod heard that the repairs to Jerusalem’s walls had gone ahead and that the gaps were being closed, they were very angry. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_8"><sup>8</sup>They all plotted together to come and fight against Jerusalem and stir up trouble against it. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_9"><sup>9</sup>But we prayed to our God and posted a guard day and night to meet this threat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>Meanwhile, the people in Judah said, “The strength of the laborers is giving out, and there is so much rubble that we cannot rebuild the wall.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>Also our enemies said, “Before they know it or see us, we will be right there among them and will kill them and put an end to the work.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then the Jews who lived near them came and told us ten times over, “Wherever you turn, they will attack us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>Therefore I stationed some of the people behind the lowest points of the wall at the exposed places, posting them by families, with their swords, spears and bows. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_14"><sup>14</sup>After I looked things over, I stood up and said to the nobles, the officials and the rest of the people, “Don’t be afraid of them. Remember the Lord, who is great and awesome, and fight for your families, your sons and your daughters, your wives and your homes.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>When our enemies heard that we were aware of their plot and that God had frustrated it, we all returned to the wall, each to our own work. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_16"> <sup>16</sup>From that day on, half of my men did the work, while the other half were equipped with spears, shields, bows and armor. The officers posted themselves behind all the people of Judah </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_17"><sup>17</sup>who were building the wall. Those who carried materials did their work with one hand and held a weapon in the other, </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_18"><sup>18</sup>and each of the builders wore his sword at his side as he worked. But the man who sounded the trumpet stayed with me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then I said to the nobles, the officials and the rest of the people, “The work is extensive and spread out, and we are widely separated from each other along the wall. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_20"><sup>20</sup>Wherever you hear the sound of the trumpet, join us there. Our God will fight for us!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>So we continued the work with half the men holding spears, from the first light of dawn till the stars came out. </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_22"><sup>22</sup>At that time I also said to the people, “Have every man and his helper stay inside Jerusalem at night, so they can serve us as guards by night and as workers by day.” </span>
<span class="verse ne_4_23"><sup>23</sup>Neither I nor my brothers nor my men nor the guards with me took off our clothes; each had his weapon, even when he went for water.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this clause is uncertain.">⚓</a><br/></span>
