---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
audio: \Audio\NIV\ne\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Further Opposition to the Rebuilding </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>When word came to Sanballat, Tobiah, Geshem the Arab and the rest of our enemies that I had rebuilt the wall and not a gap was left in it—though up to that time I had not set the doors in the gates— </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_2"><sup>2</sup>Sanballat and Geshem sent me this message: “Come, let us meet together in one of the villages<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in Kephirim">⚓</a> on the plain of Ono.” <br/> But they were scheming to harm me; </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_3"><sup>3</sup>so I sent messengers to them with this reply: “I am carrying on a great project and cannot go down. Why should the work stop while I leave it and go down to you?” </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_4"><sup>4</sup>Four times they sent me the same message, and each time I gave them the same answer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_6_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then, the fifth time, Sanballat sent his aide to me with the same message, and in his hand was an unsealed letter </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_6"><sup>6</sup>in which was written: <br/> “It is reported among the nations—and Geshem<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Gashmu, a variant of Geshem">⚓</a> says it is true—that you and the Jews are plotting to revolt, and therefore you are building the wall. Moreover, according to these reports you are about to become their king </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_7"><sup>7</sup>and have even appointed prophets to make this proclamation about you in Jerusalem: ‘There is a king in Judah!’ Now this report will get back to the king; so come, let us meet together.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>I sent him this reply: “Nothing like what you are saying is happening; you are just making it up out of your head.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>They were all trying to frighten us, thinking, “Their hands will get too weak for the work, and it will not be completed.” <br/> But I prayed, “Now strengthen my hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_6_10"> <sup>10</sup>One day I went to the house of Shemaiah son of Delaiah, the son of Mehetabel, who was shut in at his home. He said, “Let us meet in the house of God, inside the temple, and let us close the temple doors, because men are coming to kill you—by night they are coming to kill you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>But I said, “Should a man like me run away? Or should someone like me go into the temple to save his life? I will not go!” </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_12"><sup>12</sup>I realized that God had not sent him, but that he had prophesied against me because Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him. </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_13"><sup>13</sup>He had been hired to intimidate me so that I would commit a sin by doing this, and then they would give me a bad name to discredit me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_6_14"> <sup>14</sup>Remember Tobiah and Sanballat, my God, because of what they have done; remember also the prophet Noadiah and how she and the rest of the prophets have been trying to intimidate me. </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_15"><sup>15</sup>So the wall was completed on the twenty-fifth of Elul, in fifty-two days. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Opposition to the Completed Wall </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>When all our enemies heard about this, all the surrounding nations were afraid and lost their self-confidence, because they realized that this work had been done with the help of our God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>Also, in those days the nobles of Judah were sending many letters to Tobiah, and replies from Tobiah kept coming to them. </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_18"><sup>18</sup>For many in Judah were under oath to him, since he was son-in-law to Shekaniah son of Arah, and his son Jehohanan had married the daughter of Meshullam son of Berekiah. </span>
<span class="verse ne_6_19"><sup>19</sup>Moreover, they kept reporting to me his good deeds and then telling him what I said. And Tobiah sent letters to intimidate me. <br/></span>
