---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
audio: \Audio\NIV\ne\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The Agreement of the People </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Those who sealed it were: <br/>  Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hakaliah. <br/>  Zedekiah, </span>
<span class="verse ne_10_2"><sup>2</sup>Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_3">  <sup>3</sup>Pashhur, Amariah, Malkijah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_4">  <sup>4</sup>Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluk, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_5">  <sup>5</sup>Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_6">  <sup>6</sup>Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_7">  <sup>7</sup>Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_8">  <sup>8</sup>Maaziah, Bilgai and Shemaiah. <br/>    These were the priests. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_9"> <sup>9</sup>The Levites: <br/>  Jeshua son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_10">  <sup>10</sup>and their associates: Shebaniah, <br/>    Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_11">  <sup>11</sup>Mika, Rehob, Hashabiah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_12">  <sup>12</sup>Zakkur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_13">  <sup>13</sup>Hodiah, Bani and Beninu. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_14"> <sup>14</sup>The leaders of the people: <br/>  Parosh, Pahath-Moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_15">  <sup>15</sup>Bunni, Azgad, Bebai, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_16">  <sup>16</sup>Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_17">  <sup>17</sup>Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_18">  <sup>18</sup>Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_19">  <sup>19</sup>Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_20">  <sup>20</sup>Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_21">  <sup>21</sup>Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_22">  <sup>22</sup>Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_23">  <sup>23</sup>Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_24">  <sup>24</sup>Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_25">  <sup>25</sup>Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_26">  <sup>26</sup>Ahiah, Hanan, Anan, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_27">  <sup>27</sup>Malluk, Harim and Baanah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_28"> <sup>28</sup>“The rest of the people—priests, Levites, gatekeepers, musicians, temple servants and all who separated themselves from the neighboring peoples for the sake of the Law of God, together with their wives and all their sons and daughters who are able to understand— </span>
<span class="verse ne_10_29"><sup>29</sup>all these now join their fellow Israelites the nobles, and bind themselves with a curse and an oath to follow the Law of God given through Moses the servant of God and to obey carefully all the commands, regulations and decrees of the Lord our Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_30"> <sup>30</sup>“We promise not to give our daughters in marriage to the peoples around us or take their daughters for our sons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_31"> <sup>31</sup>“When the neighboring peoples bring merchandise or grain to sell on the Sabbath, we will not buy from them on the Sabbath or on any holy day. Every seventh year we will forgo working the land and will cancel all debts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_32"> <sup>32</sup>“We assume the responsibility for carrying out the commands to give a third of a shekel<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 1/8 ounce or about 4 grams">⚓</a> each year for the service of the house of our God: </span>
<span class="verse ne_10_33"><sup>33</sup>for the bread set out on the table; for the regular grain offerings and burnt offerings; for the offerings on the Sabbaths, at the New Moon feasts and at the appointed festivals; for the holy offerings; for sin offerings<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offerings">⚓</a> to make atonement for Israel; and for all the duties of the house of our God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_34"> <sup>34</sup>“We—the priests, the Levites and the people—have cast lots to determine when each of our families is to bring to the house of our God at set times each year a contribution of wood to burn on the altar of the Lord our God, as it is written in the Law. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_35"> <sup>35</sup>“We also assume responsibility for bringing to the house of the Lord each year the firstfruits of our crops and of every fruit tree. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_36"> <sup>36</sup>“As it is also written in the Law, we will bring the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, of our herds and of our flocks to the house of our God, to the priests ministering there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_10_37"> <sup>37</sup>“Moreover, we will bring to the storerooms of the house of our God, to the priests, the first of our ground meal, of our grain offerings, of the fruit of all our trees and of our new wine and olive oil. And we will bring a tithe of our crops to the Levites, for it is the Levites who collect the tithes in all the towns where we work. </span>
<span class="verse ne_10_38"><sup>38</sup>A priest descended from Aaron is to accompany the Levites when they receive the tithes, and the Levites are to bring a tenth of the tithes up to the house of our God, to the storerooms of the treasury. </span>
<span class="verse ne_10_39"><sup>39</sup>The people of Israel, including the Levites, are to bring their contributions of grain, new wine and olive oil to the storerooms, where the articles for the sanctuary and for the ministering priests, the gatekeepers and the musicians are also kept. <br/> “We will not neglect the house of our God.” <br/></span>
