---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
audio: \Audio\NIV\ne\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>The New Residents of Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now the leaders of the people settled in Jerusalem. The rest of the people cast lots to bring one out of every ten of them to live in Jerusalem, the holy city, while the remaining nine were to stay in their own towns. </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_2"><sup>2</sup>The people commended all who volunteered to live in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_3"> <sup>3</sup>These are the provincial leaders who settled in Jerusalem (now some Israelites, priests, Levites, temple servants and descendants of Solomon’s servants lived in the towns of Judah, each on their own property in the various towns, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_4"><sup>4</sup>while other people from both Judah and Benjamin lived in Jerusalem): <br/> From the descendants of Judah: <br/> Athaiah son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, a descendant of Perez; </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_5"><sup>5</sup>and Maaseiah son of Baruch, the son of Kol-Hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, a descendant of Shelah. </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_6"><sup>6</sup>The descendants of Perez who lived in Jerusalem totaled 468 men of standing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>From the descendants of Benjamin: <br/> Sallu son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_8"><sup>8</sup>and his followers, Gabbai and Sallai—928 men. </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_9"><sup>9</sup>Joel son of Zikri was their chief officer, and Judah son of Hassenuah was over the New Quarter of the city. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_10"> <sup>10</sup>From the priests: <br/> Jedaiah; the son of Joiarib; Jakin; </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_11"><sup>11</sup>Seraiah son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the official in charge of the house of God, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_12"><sup>12</sup>and their associates, who carried on work for the temple—822 men; Adaiah son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malkijah, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_13"><sup>13</sup>and his associates, who were heads of families—242 men; Amashsai son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_14"><sup>14</sup>and his<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew their">⚓</a> associates, who were men of standing—128. Their chief officer was Zabdiel son of Haggedolim. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_15"> <sup>15</sup>From the Levites: <br/> Shemaiah son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni; </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_16"><sup>16</sup>Shabbethai and Jozabad, two of the heads of the Levites, who had charge of the outside work of the house of God; </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_17"><sup>17</sup>Mattaniah son of Mika, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, the director who led in thanksgiving and prayer; Bakbukiah, second among his associates; and Abda son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun. </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_18"><sup>18</sup>The Levites in the holy city totaled 284. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_19"> <sup>19</sup>The gatekeepers: <br/> Akkub, Talmon and their associates, who kept watch at the gates—172 men. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_20"> <sup>20</sup>The rest of the Israelites, with the priests and Levites, were in all the towns of Judah, each on their ancestral property. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_21"> <sup>21</sup>The temple servants lived on the hill of Ophel, and Ziha and Gishpa were in charge of them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>The chief officer of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mika. Uzzi was one of Asaph’s descendants, who were the musicians responsible for the service of the house of God. </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_23"><sup>23</sup>The musicians were under the king’s orders, which regulated their daily activity. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_24"> <sup>24</sup>Pethahiah son of Meshezabel, one of the descendants of Zerah son of Judah, was the king’s agent in all affairs relating to the people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_25"> <sup>25</sup>As for the villages with their fields, some of the people of Judah lived in Kiriath Arba and its surrounding settlements, in Dibon and its settlements, in Jekabzeel and its villages, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_26"><sup>26</sup>in Jeshua, in Moladah, in Beth Pelet, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_27"><sup>27</sup>in Hazar Shual, in Beersheba and its settlements, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_28"><sup>28</sup>in Ziklag, in Mekonah and its settlements, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_29"><sup>29</sup>in En Rimmon, in Zorah, in Jarmuth, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_30"><sup>30</sup>Zanoah, Adullam and their villages, in Lachish and its fields, and in Azekah and its settlements. So they were living all the way from Beersheba to the Valley of Hinnom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_31"> <sup>31</sup>The descendants of the Benjamites from Geba lived in Mikmash, Aija, Bethel and its settlements, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_32"><sup>32</sup>in Anathoth, Nob and Ananiah, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_33"><sup>33</sup>in Hazor, Ramah and Gittaim, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_34"><sup>34</sup>in Hadid, Zeboim and Neballat, </span>
<span class="verse ne_11_35"><sup>35</sup>in Lod and Ono, and in Ge Harashim. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_11_36"> <sup>36</sup>Some of the divisions of the Levites of Judah settled in Benjamin. <br/></span>
