---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Nehemial 
bookNumber: 16
audio: \Audio\NIV\ne\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Priests and Levites </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>These were the priests and Levites who returned with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and with Joshua: <br/>  Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_2">  <sup>2</sup>Amariah, Malluk, Hattush, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_3">  <sup>3</sup>Shekaniah, Rehum, Meremoth, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_4">  <sup>4</sup>Iddo, Ginnethon,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many Hebrew manuscripts and Vulgate (see also verse 16); most Hebrew manuscripts Ginnethoi">⚓</a> Abijah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_5">  <sup>5</sup>Mijamin,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A variant of Miniamin">⚓</a> Moadiah, Bilgah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_6">  <sup>6</sup>Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_7">  <sup>7</sup>Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah and Jedaiah. <br/> These were the leaders of the priests and their associates in the days of Joshua. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>The Levites were Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and also Mattaniah, who, together with his associates, was in charge of the songs of thanksgiving. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_9"><sup>9</sup>Bakbukiah and Unni, their associates, stood opposite them in the services. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_10"> <sup>10</sup>Joshua was the father of Joiakim, Joiakim the father of Eliashib, Eliashib the father of Joiada, </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_11"><sup>11</sup>Joiada the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan the father of Jaddua. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_12"> <sup>12</sup>In the days of Joiakim, these were the heads of the priestly families: <br/>  of Seraiah’s family, Meraiah; <br/>  of Jeremiah’s, Hananiah; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_13">  <sup>13</sup>of Ezra’s, Meshullam; <br/>  of Amariah’s, Jehohanan; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_14">  <sup>14</sup>of Malluk’s, Jonathan; <br/>  of Shekaniah’s,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Very many Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also verse 3); most Hebrew manuscripts Shebaniah’s">⚓</a> Joseph; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_15">  <sup>15</sup>of Harim’s, Adna; <br/>  of Meremoth’s,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also verse 3); Hebrew Meraioth’s">⚓</a> Helkai; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_16">  <sup>16</sup>of Iddo’s, Zechariah; <br/>  of Ginnethon’s, Meshullam; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_17">  <sup>17</sup>of Abijah’s, Zikri; <br/>  of Miniamin’s and of Moadiah’s, Piltai; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_18">  <sup>18</sup>of Bilgah’s, Shammua; <br/>  of Shemaiah’s, Jehonathan; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_19">  <sup>19</sup>of Joiarib’s, Mattenai; <br/>  of Jedaiah’s, Uzzi; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_20">  <sup>20</sup>of Sallu’s, Kallai; <br/>  of Amok’s, Eber; <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_21">  <sup>21</sup>of Hilkiah’s, Hashabiah; <br/>  of Jedaiah’s, Nethanel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_22"> <sup>22</sup>The family heads of the Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, Johanan and Jaddua, as well as those of the priests, were recorded in the reign of Darius the Persian. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_23"><sup>23</sup>The family heads among the descendants of Levi up to the time of Johanan son of Eliashib were recorded in the book of the annals. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_24"><sup>24</sup>And the leaders of the Levites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah, Jeshua son of Kadmiel, and their associates, who stood opposite them to give praise and thanksgiving, one section responding to the other, as prescribed by David the man of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_25"> <sup>25</sup>Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon and Akkub were gatekeepers who guarded the storerooms at the gates. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_26"><sup>26</sup>They served in the days of Joiakim son of Joshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor and of Ezra the priest, the teacher of the Law. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Dedication of the Wall of Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse ne_12_27"> <sup>27</sup>At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, the Levites were sought out from where they lived and were brought to Jerusalem to celebrate joyfully the dedication with songs of thanksgiving and with the music of cymbals, harps and lyres. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_28"><sup>28</sup>The musicians also were brought together from the region around Jerusalem—from the villages of the Netophathites, </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_29"><sup>29</sup>from Beth Gilgal, and from the area of Geba and Azmaveth, for the musicians had built villages for themselves around Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_30"><sup>30</sup>When the priests and Levites had purified themselves ceremonially, they purified the people, the gates and the wall. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_31"> <sup>31</sup>I had the leaders of Judah go up on top of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or go alongside">⚓</a> the wall. I also assigned two large choirs to give thanks. One was to proceed on top of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or proceed alongside">⚓</a> the wall to the right, toward the Dung Gate. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_32"><sup>32</sup>Hoshaiah and half the leaders of Judah followed them, </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_33"><sup>33</sup>along with Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam, </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_34"><sup>34</sup>Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, Jeremiah, </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_35"><sup>35</sup>as well as some priests with trumpets, and also Zechariah son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zakkur, the son of Asaph, </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_36"><sup>36</sup>and his associates—Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah and Hanani—with musical instruments prescribed by David the man of God. Ezra the teacher of the Law led the procession. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_37"><sup>37</sup>At the Fountain Gate they continued directly up the steps of the City of David on the ascent to the wall and passed above the site of David’s palace to the Water Gate on the east. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_38"> <sup>38</sup>The second choir proceeded in the opposite direction. I followed them on top of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or them alongside">⚓</a> the wall, together with half the people—past the Tower of the Ovens to the Broad Wall, </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_39"><sup>39</sup>over the Gate of Ephraim, the Jeshanah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Old">⚓</a> Gate, the Fish Gate, the Tower of Hananel and the Tower of the Hundred, as far as the Sheep Gate. At the Gate of the Guard they stopped. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_40"> <sup>40</sup>The two choirs that gave thanks then took their places in the house of God; so did I, together with half the officials, </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_41"><sup>41</sup>as well as the priests—Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah and Hananiah with their trumpets— </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_42"><sup>42</sup>and also Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malkijah, Elam and Ezer. The choirs sang under the direction of Jezrahiah. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_43"><sup>43</sup>And on that day they offered great sacrifices, rejoicing because God had given them great joy. The women and children also rejoiced. The sound of rejoicing in Jerusalem could be heard far away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ne_12_44"> <sup>44</sup>At that time men were appointed to be in charge of the storerooms for the contributions, firstfruits and tithes. From the fields around the towns they were to bring into the storerooms the portions required by the Law for the priests and the Levites, for Judah was pleased with the ministering priests and Levites. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_45"><sup>45</sup>They performed the service of their God and the service of purification, as did also the musicians and gatekeepers, according to the commands of David and his son Solomon. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_46"><sup>46</sup>For long ago, in the days of David and Asaph, there had been directors for the musicians and for the songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. </span>
<span class="verse ne_12_47"><sup>47</sup>So in the days of Zerubbabel and of Nehemiah, all Israel contributed the daily portions for the musicians and the gatekeepers. They also set aside the portion for the other Levites, and the Levites set aside the portion for the descendants of Aaron. <br/></span>
