---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Ruth 
bookNumber: 8
audio: \Audio\NIV\ru\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Naomi Loses Her Husband and Sons </h3></div>
<span class="verse ru_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the days when the judges ruled,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judged">⚓</a> there was a famine in the land. So a man from Bethlehem in Judah, together with his wife and two sons, went to live for a while in the country of Moab. </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_2"><sup>2</sup>The man’s name was Elimelek, his wife’s name was Naomi, and the names of his two sons were Mahlon and Kilion. They were Ephrathites from Bethlehem, Judah. And they went to Moab and lived there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>Now Elimelek, Naomi’s husband, died, and she was left with her two sons. </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_4"><sup>4</sup>They married Moabite women, one named Orpah and the other Ruth. After they had lived there about ten years, </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_5"><sup>5</sup>both Mahlon and Kilion also died, and Naomi was left without her two sons and her husband. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Naomi and Ruth Return to Bethlehem </h3></div>
<span class="verse ru_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>When Naomi heard in Moab that the Lord had come to the aid of his people by providing food for them, she and her daughters-in-law prepared to return home from there. </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_7"><sup>7</sup>With her two daughters-in-law she left the place where she had been living and set out on the road that would take them back to the land of Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, “Go back, each of you, to your mother’s home. May the Lord show you kindness, as you have shown kindness to your dead husbands and to me. </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_9"><sup>9</sup>May the Lord grant that each of you will find rest in the home of another husband.” <br/> Then she kissed them goodbye and they wept aloud </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_10"><sup>10</sup>and said to her, “We will go back with you to your people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>But Naomi said, “Return home, my daughters. Why would you come with me? Am I going to have any more sons, who could become your husbands? </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_12"><sup>12</sup>Return home, my daughters; I am too old to have another husband. Even if I thought there was still hope for me—even if I had a husband tonight and then gave birth to sons— </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_13"><sup>13</sup>would you wait until they grew up? Would you remain unmarried for them? No, my daughters. It is more bitter for me than for you, because the Lord’s hand has turned against me!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_14"> <sup>14</sup>At this they wept aloud again. Then Orpah kissed her mother-in-law goodbye, but Ruth clung to her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Look,” said Naomi, “your sister-in-law is going back to her people and her gods. Go back with her.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>But Ruth replied, “Don’t urge me to leave you or to turn back from you. Where you go I will go, and where you stay I will stay. Your people will be my people and your God my God. </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_17"><sup>17</sup>Where you die I will die, and there I will be buried. May the Lord deal with me, be it ever so severely, if even death separates you and me.” </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_18"><sup>18</sup>When Naomi realized that Ruth was determined to go with her, she stopped urging her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>So the two women went on until they came to Bethlehem. When they arrived in Bethlehem, the whole town was stirred because of them, and the women exclaimed, “Can this be Naomi?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_20"> <sup>20</sup>“Don’t call me Naomi,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means pleasant.">⚓</a> ” she told them. “Call me Mara,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means bitter.">⚓</a> because the Almighty<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Shaddai ; also in verse 21">⚓</a> has made my life very bitter. </span>
<span class="verse ru_1_21"><sup>21</sup>I went away full, but the Lord has brought me back empty. Why call me Naomi? The Lord has afflicted<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or has testified against">⚓</a> me; the Almighty has brought misfortune upon me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>So Naomi returned from Moab accompanied by Ruth the Moabite, her daughter-in-law, arriving in Bethlehem as the barley harvest was beginning. <br/></span>
