---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Ruth 
bookNumber: 8
audio: \Audio\NIV\ru\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Ruth and Boaz at the Threshing Floor </h3></div>
<span class="verse ru_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>One day Ruth’s mother-in-law Naomi said to her, “My daughter, I must find a home<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew find rest (see 1:9).">⚓</a> for you, where you will be well provided for. </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_2"><sup>2</sup>Now Boaz, with whose women you have worked, is a relative of ours. Tonight he will be winnowing barley on the threshing floor. </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_3"><sup>3</sup>Wash, put on perfume, and get dressed in your best clothes. Then go down to the threshing floor, but don’t let him know you are there until he has finished eating and drinking. </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_4"><sup>4</sup>When he lies down, note the place where he is lying. Then go and uncover his feet and lie down. He will tell you what to do.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_3_5"> <sup>5</sup>“I will do whatever you say,” Ruth answered. </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_6"><sup>6</sup>So she went down to the threshing floor and did everything her mother-in-law told her to do. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>When Boaz had finished eating and drinking and was in good spirits, he went over to lie down at the far end of the grain pile. Ruth approached quietly, uncovered his feet and lay down. </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_8"><sup>8</sup>In the middle of the night something startled the man; he turned—and there was a woman lying at his feet! <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_3_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Who are you?” he asked. <br/> “I am your servant Ruth,” she said. “Spread the corner of your garment over me, since you are a guardian-redeemer<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word for guardian-redeemer is a legal term for one who has the obligation to redeem a relative in serious difficulty (see Lev. 25:25-55); also in verses 12 and 13.">⚓</a> of our family.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>“The Lord bless you, my daughter,” he replied. “This kindness is greater than that which you showed earlier: You have not run after the younger men, whether rich or poor. </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_11"><sup>11</sup>And now, my daughter, don’t be afraid. I will do for you all you ask. All the people of my town know that you are a woman of noble character. </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_12"><sup>12</sup>Although it is true that I am a guardian-redeemer of our family, there is another who is more closely related than I. </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_13"><sup>13</sup>Stay here for the night, and in the morning if he wants to do his duty as your guardian-redeemer, good; let him redeem you. But if he is not willing, as surely as the Lord lives I will do it. Lie here until morning.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>So she lay at his feet until morning, but got up before anyone could be recognized; and he said, “No one must know that a woman came to the threshing floor.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>He also said, “Bring me the shawl you are wearing and hold it out.” When she did so, he poured into it six measures of barley and placed the bundle on her. Then he<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most Hebrew manuscripts; many Hebrew manuscripts, Vulgate and Syriac she">⚓</a> went back to town. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_3_16"> <sup>16</sup>When Ruth came to her mother-in-law, Naomi asked, “How did it go, my daughter?” <br/> Then she told her everything Boaz had done for her </span>
<span class="verse ru_3_17"><sup>17</sup>and added, “He gave me these six measures of barley, saying, ‘Don’t go back to your mother-in-law empty-handed.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_3_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Naomi said, “Wait, my daughter, until you find out what happens. For the man will not rest until the matter is settled today.” <br/></span>
