---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Ruth 
bookNumber: 8
audio: \Audio\NIV\ru\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Boaz Marries Ruth </h3></div>
<span class="verse ru_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Meanwhile Boaz went up to the town gate and sat down there just as the guardian-redeemer<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word for guardian-redeemer is a legal term for one who has the obligation to redeem a relative in serious difficulty (see Lev. 25:25-55); also in verses 3, 6, 8 and 14.">⚓</a> he had mentioned came along. Boaz said, “Come over here, my friend, and sit down.” So he went over and sat down. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_2"> <sup>2</sup>Boaz took ten of the elders of the town and said, “Sit here,” and they did so. </span>
<span class="verse ru_4_3"><sup>3</sup>Then he said to the guardian-redeemer, “Naomi, who has come back from Moab, is selling the piece of land that belonged to our relative Elimelek. </span>
<span class="verse ru_4_4"><sup>4</sup>I thought I should bring the matter to your attention and suggest that you buy it in the presence of these seated here and in the presence of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, do so. But if you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac; most Hebrew manuscripts he">⚓</a> will not, tell me, so I will know. For no one has the right to do it except you, and I am next in line.” <br/> “I will redeem it,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then Boaz said, “On the day you buy the land from Naomi, you also acquire Ruth the Moabite, the<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Vulgate and Syriac; Hebrew (see also Septuagint) Naomi and from Ruth the Moabite, you acquire the">⚓</a> dead man’s widow, in order to maintain the name of the dead with his property.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>At this, the guardian-redeemer said, “Then I cannot redeem it because I might endanger my own estate. You redeem it yourself. I cannot do it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>(Now in earlier times in Israel, for the redemption and transfer of property to become final, one party took off his sandal and gave it to the other. This was the method of legalizing transactions in Israel.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_8"> <sup>8</sup>So the guardian-redeemer said to Boaz, “Buy it yourself.” And he removed his sandal. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Boaz announced to the elders and all the people, “Today you are witnesses that I have bought from Naomi all the property of Elimelek, Kilion and Mahlon. </span>
<span class="verse ru_4_10"><sup>10</sup>I have also acquired Ruth the Moabite, Mahlon’s widow, as my wife, in order to maintain the name of the dead with his property, so that his name will not disappear from among his family or from his hometown. Today you are witnesses!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then the elders and all the people at the gate said, “We are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your home like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the family of Israel. May you have standing in Ephrathah and be famous in Bethlehem. </span>
<span class="verse ru_4_12"><sup>12</sup>Through the offspring the Lord gives you by this young woman, may your family be like that of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Naomi Gains a Son </h3></div>
<span class="verse ru_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. When he made love to her, the Lord enabled her to conceive, and she gave birth to a son. </span>
<span class="verse ru_4_14"><sup>14</sup>The women said to Naomi: “Praise be to the Lord, who this day has not left you without a guardian-redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel! </span>
<span class="verse ru_4_15"><sup>15</sup>He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age. For your daughter-in-law, who loves you and who is better to you than seven sons, has given him birth.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then Naomi took the child in her arms and cared for him. </span>
<span class="verse ru_4_17"><sup>17</sup>The women living there said, “Naomi has a son!” And they named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Genealogy of David </h3></div>
<span class="verse ru_4_18"> <sup>18</sup>This, then, is the family line of Perez: <br/>  Perez was the father of Hezron, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_19">  <sup>19</sup>Hezron the father of Ram, <br/>  Ram the father of Amminadab, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_20">  <sup>20</sup>Amminadab the father of Nahshon, <br/>  Nahshon the father of Salmon,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A few Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Vulgate (see also verse 21 and Septuagint of 1 Chron. 2:11); most Hebrew manuscripts Salma">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_21">  <sup>21</sup>Salmon the father of Boaz, <br/>  Boaz the father of Obed, <br/></span>
<span class="verse ru_4_22">  <sup>22</sup>Obed the father of Jesse, <br/>  and Jesse the father of David. <br/></span>
