---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Introduction </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or been surely believed">⚓</a> among us, </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_2"><sup>2</sup>just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_3"><sup>3</sup>With this in mind, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, I too decided to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_4"><sup>4</sup>so that you may know the certainty of the things you have been taught. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Birth of John the Baptist Foretold </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>In the time of Herod king of Judea there was a priest named Zechariah, who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah; his wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_6"><sup>6</sup>Both of them were righteous in the sight of God, observing all the Lord’s commands and decrees blamelessly. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_7"><sup>7</sup>But they were childless because Elizabeth was not able to conceive, and they were both very old. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>Once when Zechariah’s division was on duty and he was serving as priest before God, </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_9"><sup>9</sup>he was chosen by lot, according to the custom of the priesthood, to go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_10"><sup>10</sup>And when the time for the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshipers were praying outside. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_12"><sup>12</sup>When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped with fear. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_13"><sup>13</sup>But the angel said to him: “Do not be afraid, Zechariah; your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are to call him John. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_14"><sup>14</sup>He will be a joy and delight to you, and many will rejoice because of his birth, </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_15"><sup>15</sup>for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to take wine or other fermented drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_16"><sup>16</sup>He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord their God. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_17"><sup>17</sup>And he will go on before the Lord, in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the parents to their children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous—to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>Zechariah asked the angel, “How can I be sure of this? I am an old man and my wife is well along in years.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>The angel said to him, “I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and to tell you this good news. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_20"><sup>20</sup>And now you will be silent and not able to speak until the day this happens, because you did not believe my words, which will come true at their appointed time.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_21"> <sup>21</sup>Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zechariah and wondering why he stayed so long in the temple. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_22"><sup>22</sup>When he came out, he could not speak to them. They realized he had seen a vision in the temple, for he kept making signs to them but remained unable to speak. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_23"> <sup>23</sup>When his time of service was completed, he returned home. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_24"><sup>24</sup>After this his wife Elizabeth became pregnant and for five months remained in seclusion. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_25"><sup>25</sup>“The Lord has done this for me,” she said. “In these days he has shown his favor and taken away my disgrace among the people.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Birth of Jesus Foretold </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_1_26"> <sup>26</sup>In the sixth month of Elizabeth’s pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_27"><sup>27</sup>to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. The virgin’s name was Mary. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_28"><sup>28</sup>The angel went to her and said, “Greetings, you who are highly favored! The Lord is with you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_29"> <sup>29</sup>Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_30"><sup>30</sup>But the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary; you have found favor with God. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_31"><sup>31</sup>You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call him Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_32"><sup>32</sup>He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_33"><sup>33</sup>and he will reign over Jacob’s descendants forever; his kingdom will never end.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_34"> <sup>34</sup>“How will this be,” Mary asked the angel, “since I am a virgin?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_35"> <sup>35</sup>The angel answered, “The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the holy one to be born will be called<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or So the child to be born will be called holy,">⚓</a> the Son of God. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_36"><sup>36</sup>Even Elizabeth your relative is going to have a child in her old age, and she who was said to be unable to conceive is in her sixth month. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_37"><sup>37</sup>For no word from God will ever fail.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_38"> <sup>38</sup>“I am the Lord’s servant,” Mary answered. “May your word to me be fulfilled.” Then the angel left her. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Mary Visits Elizabeth </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_1_39"> <sup>39</sup>At that time Mary got ready and hurried to a town in the hill country of Judea, </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_40"><sup>40</sup>where she entered Zechariah’s home and greeted Elizabeth. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_41"><sup>41</sup>When Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_42"><sup>42</sup>In a loud voice she exclaimed: “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the child you will bear! </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_43"><sup>43</sup>But why am I so favored, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_44"><sup>44</sup>As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_45"><sup>45</sup>Blessed is she who has believed that the Lord would fulfill his promises to her!” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Mary’s Song </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_1_46"> <sup>46</sup>And Mary said: <br/>  “My soul glorifies the Lord <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_47">   <sup>47</sup>and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_48">  <sup>48</sup>for he has been mindful <br/>   of the humble state of his servant. <br/>  From now on all generations will call me blessed, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_49">   <sup>49</sup>for the Mighty One has done great things for me— <br/>   holy is his name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_50">  <sup>50</sup>His mercy extends to those who fear him, <br/>   from generation to generation. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_51">  <sup>51</sup>He has performed mighty deeds with his arm; <br/>   he has scattered those who are proud in their inmost thoughts. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_52">  <sup>52</sup>He has brought down rulers from their thrones <br/>   but has lifted up the humble. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_53">  <sup>53</sup>He has filled the hungry with good things <br/>   but has sent the rich away empty. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_54">  <sup>54</sup>He has helped his servant Israel, <br/>   remembering to be merciful <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_55">  <sup>55</sup>to Abraham and his descendants forever, <br/>   just as he promised our ancestors.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_56"> <sup>56</sup>Mary stayed with Elizabeth for about three months and then returned home. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Birth of John the Baptist </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_1_57"> <sup>57</sup>When it was time for Elizabeth to have her baby, she gave birth to a son. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_58"><sup>58</sup>Her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown her great mercy, and they shared her joy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_59"> <sup>59</sup>On the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they were going to name him after his father Zechariah, </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_60"><sup>60</sup>but his mother spoke up and said, “No! He is to be called John.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_61"> <sup>61</sup>They said to her, “There is no one among your relatives who has that name.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_62"> <sup>62</sup>Then they made signs to his father, to find out what he would like to name the child. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_63"><sup>63</sup>He asked for a writing tablet, and to everyone’s astonishment he wrote, “His name is John.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_64"><sup>64</sup>Immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue set free, and he began to speak, praising God. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_65"><sup>65</sup>All the neighbors were filled with awe, and throughout the hill country of Judea people were talking about all these things. </span>
<span class="verse lu_1_66"><sup>66</sup>Everyone who heard this wondered about it, asking, “What then is this child going to be?” For the Lord’s hand was with him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Zechariah’s Song </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_1_67"> <sup>67</sup>His father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied: <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_68">  <sup>68</sup>“Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel, <br/>   because he has come to his people and redeemed them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_69">  <sup>69</sup>He has raised up a horn<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="here symbolizes a strong king.">⚓</a> of salvation for us <br/>   in the house of his servant David <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_70">  <sup>70</sup>(as he said through his holy prophets of long ago), <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_71">  <sup>71</sup>salvation from our enemies <br/>   and from the hand of all who hate us— <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_72">  <sup>72</sup>to show mercy to our ancestors <br/>   and to remember his holy covenant, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_73">   <sup>73</sup>the oath he swore to our father Abraham: <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_74">  <sup>74</sup>to rescue us from the hand of our enemies, <br/>   and to enable us to serve him without fear <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_75">   <sup>75</sup>in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_76">  <sup>76</sup>And you, my child, will be called a prophet of the Most High; <br/>   for you will go on before the Lord to prepare the way for him, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_77">  <sup>77</sup>to give his people the knowledge of salvation <br/>   through the forgiveness of their sins, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_78">  <sup>78</sup>because of the tender mercy of our God, <br/>   by which the rising sun will come to us from heaven <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_79">  <sup>79</sup>to shine on those living in darkness <br/>   and in the shadow of death, <br/>  to guide our feet into the path of peace.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_1_80"> <sup>80</sup>And the child grew and became strong in spirit<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in the Spirit">⚓</a> ; and he lived in the wilderness until he appeared publicly to Israel. <br/></span>
