---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>The Birth of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_2"><sup>2</sup>(This was the first census that took place while<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or This census took place before">⚓</a> Quirinius was governor of Syria.) </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_3"><sup>3</sup>And everyone went to their own town to register. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of David. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_5"><sup>5</sup>He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_6"><sup>6</sup>While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_7"><sup>7</sup>and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no guest room available for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_9"><sup>9</sup>An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_10"><sup>10</sup>But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_11"><sup>11</sup>Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you; he is the Messiah, the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_12"><sup>12</sup>This will be a sign to you: You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angel, praising God and saying, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_14">  <sup>14</sup>“Glory to God in the highest heaven, <br/>   and on earth peace to those on whom his favor rests.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>When the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, “Let’s go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_16"> <sup>16</sup>So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby, who was lying in the manger. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_17"><sup>17</sup>When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what had been told them about this child, </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_18"><sup>18</sup>and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said to them. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_19"><sup>19</sup>But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_20"><sup>20</sup>The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen, which were just as they had been told. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_21"> <sup>21</sup>On the eighth day, when it was time to circumcise the child, he was named Jesus, the name the angel had given him before he was conceived. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Presented in the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_2_22"> <sup>22</sup>When the time came for the purification rites required by the Law of Moses, Joseph and Mary took him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_23"><sup>23</sup>(as it is written in the Law of the Lord, “Every firstborn male is to be consecrated to the Lord”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 13:2,12 ">⚓</a> ), </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_24"><sup>24</sup>and to offer a sacrifice in keeping with what is said in the Law of the Lord: “a pair of doves or two young pigeons.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 12:8">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_25"> <sup>25</sup>Now there was a man in Jerusalem called Simeon, who was righteous and devout. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was on him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_26"><sup>26</sup>It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not die before he had seen the Lord’s Messiah. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_27"><sup>27</sup>Moved by the Spirit, he went into the temple courts. When the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him what the custom of the Law required, </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_28"><sup>28</sup>Simeon took him in his arms and praised God, saying: <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_29">  <sup>29</sup>“Sovereign Lord, as you have promised, <br/>   you may now dismiss<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or promised, / now dismiss">⚓</a> your servant in peace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_30">  <sup>30</sup>For my eyes have seen your salvation, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_31">   <sup>31</sup>which you have prepared in the sight of all nations: <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_32">  <sup>32</sup>a light for revelation to the Gentiles, <br/>   and the glory of your people Israel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_33"> <sup>33</sup>The child’s father and mother marveled at what was said about him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_34"><sup>34</sup>Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother: “This child is destined to cause the falling and rising of many in Israel, and to be a sign that will be spoken against, </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_35"><sup>35</sup>so that the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed. And a sword will pierce your own soul too.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_36"> <sup>36</sup>There was also a prophet, Anna, the daughter of Penuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was very old; she had lived with her husband seven years after her marriage, </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_37"><sup>37</sup>and then was a widow until she was eighty-four.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or then had been a widow for eighty-four years.">⚓</a> She never left the temple but worshiped night and day, fasting and praying. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_38"><sup>38</sup>Coming up to them at that very moment, she gave thanks to God and spoke about the child to all who were looking forward to the redemption of Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_39"> <sup>39</sup>When Joseph and Mary had done everything required by the Law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee to their own town of Nazareth. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_40"><sup>40</sup>And the child grew and became strong; he was filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was on him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Boy Jesus at the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_2_41"> <sup>41</sup>Every year Jesus’ parents went to Jerusalem for the Festival of the Passover. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_42"><sup>42</sup>When he was twelve years old, they went up to the festival, according to the custom. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_43"><sup>43</sup>After the festival was over, while his parents were returning home, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but they were unaware of it. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_44"><sup>44</sup>Thinking he was in their company, they traveled on for a day. Then they began looking for him among their relatives and friends. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_45"><sup>45</sup>When they did not find him, they went back to Jerusalem to look for him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_46"><sup>46</sup>After three days they found him in the temple courts, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_47"><sup>47</sup>Everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his answers. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_48"><sup>48</sup>When his parents saw him, they were astonished. His mother said to him, “Son, why have you treated us like this? Your father and I have been anxiously searching for you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_49"> <sup>49</sup><font color="red">“Why were you searching for me?”</font> he asked. <font color="red">“Didn’t you know I had to be in my Father’s house?”</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or be about my Father’s business">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_50"><sup>50</sup>But they did not understand what he was saying to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_2_51"> <sup>51</sup>Then he went down to Nazareth with them and was obedient to them. But his mother treasured all these things in her heart. </span>
<span class="verse lu_2_52"><sup>52</sup>And Jesus grew in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man. <br/></span>
