---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>John the Baptist Prepares the Way </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar—when Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, Herod tetrarch of Galilee, his brother Philip tetrarch of Iturea and Traconitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene— </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_2"><sup>2</sup>during the high-priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John son of Zechariah in the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_3"><sup>3</sup>He went into all the country around the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_4"><sup>4</sup>As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet: <br/>  “A voice of one calling in the wilderness, <br/>  ‘Prepare the way for the Lord, <br/>   make straight paths for him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_5">  <sup>5</sup>Every valley shall be filled in, <br/>   every mountain and hill made low. <br/>  The crooked roads shall become straight, <br/>   the rough ways smooth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_6">  <sup>6</sup>And all people will see God’s salvation.’ ”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 40:3-5">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>John said to the crowds coming out to be baptized by him, “You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_8"><sup>8</sup>Produce fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father.’ For I tell you that out of these stones God can raise up children for Abraham. </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_9"><sup>9</sup>The ax is already at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>“What should we do then?” the crowd asked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>John answered, “Anyone who has two shirts should share with the one who has none, and anyone who has food should do the same.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>Even tax collectors came to be baptized. “Teacher,” they asked, “what should we do?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_13"> <sup>13</sup>“Don’t collect any more than you are required to,” he told them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then some soldiers asked him, “And what should we do?” <br/> He replied, “Don’t extort money and don’t accuse people falsely—be content with your pay.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>The people were waiting expectantly and were all wondering in their hearts if John might possibly be the Messiah. </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_16"><sup>16</sup>John answered them all, “I baptize you with<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a> water. But one who is more powerful than I will come, the straps of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a> the Holy Spirit and fire. </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_17"><sup>17</sup>His winnowing fork is in his hand to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_18"><sup>18</sup>And with many other words John exhorted the people and proclaimed the good news to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_19"> <sup>19</sup>But when John rebuked Herod the tetrarch because of his marriage to Herodias, his brother’s wife, and all the other evil things he had done, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_20"><sup>20</sup>Herod added this to them all: He locked John up in prison. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Baptism and Genealogy of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_3_21"> <sup>21</sup>When all the people were being baptized, Jesus was baptized too. And as he was praying, heaven was opened </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_22"><sup>22</sup>and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven: “You are my Son, whom I love; with you I am well pleased.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_23"> <sup>23</sup>Now Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he began his ministry. He was the son, so it was thought, of Joseph, <br/>  the son of Heli, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_24"><sup>24</sup>the son of Matthat, <br/>  the son of Levi, the son of Melki, <br/>  the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_25">  <sup>25</sup>the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, <br/>  the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, <br/>  the son of Naggai, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_26"><sup>26</sup>the son of Maath, <br/>  the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, <br/>  the son of Josek, the son of Joda, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_27">  <sup>27</sup>the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, <br/>  the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, <br/>  the son of Neri, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_28"><sup>28</sup>the son of Melki, <br/>  the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, <br/>  the son of Elmadam, the son of Er, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_29">  <sup>29</sup>the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, <br/>  the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, <br/>  the son of Levi, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_30"><sup>30</sup>the son of Simeon, <br/>  the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, <br/>  the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_31">  <sup>31</sup>the son of Melea, the son of Menna, <br/>  the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, <br/>  the son of David, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_32"><sup>32</sup>the son of Jesse, <br/>  the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, <br/>  the son of Salmon,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts Sala">⚓</a> the son of Nahshon, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_33">  <sup>33</sup>the son of Amminadab, the son of Ram,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni ; other manuscripts vary widely.">⚓</a><br/>  the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, <br/>  the son of Judah, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_34"><sup>34</sup>the son of Jacob, <br/>  the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, <br/>  the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_35">  <sup>35</sup>the son of Serug, the son of Reu, <br/>  the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, <br/>  the son of Shelah, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_36"><sup>36</sup>the son of Cainan, <br/>  the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, <br/>  the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_3_37">  <sup>37</sup>the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, <br/>  the son of Jared, the son of Mahalalel, <br/>  the son of Kenan, </span>
<span class="verse lu_3_38"><sup>38</sup>the son of Enosh, <br/>  the son of Seth, the son of Adam, <br/>  the son of God. <br/></span>
