---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Jesus Calls His First Disciples </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>One day as Jesus was standing by the Lake of Gennesaret,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the Sea of Galilee">⚓</a> the people were crowding around him and listening to the word of God. </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_2"><sup>2</sup>He saw at the water’s edge two boats, left there by the fishermen, who were washing their nets. </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_3"><sup>3</sup>He got into one of the boats, the one belonging to Simon, and asked him to put out a little from shore. Then he sat down and taught the people from the boat. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_4"> <sup>4</sup>When he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, <font color="red">“Put out into deep water, and let down the nets for a catch.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_5"> <sup>5</sup>Simon answered, “Master, we’ve worked hard all night and haven’t caught anything. But because you say so, I will let down the nets.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>When they had done so, they caught such a large number of fish that their nets began to break. </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_7"><sup>7</sup>So they signaled their partners in the other boat to come and help them, and they came and filled both boats so full that they began to sink. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_8"> <sup>8</sup>When Simon Peter saw this, he fell at Jesus’ knees and said, “Go away from me, Lord; I am a sinful man!” </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_9"><sup>9</sup>For he and all his companions were astonished at the catch of fish they had taken, </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_10"><sup>10</sup>and so were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, Simon’s partners. <br/> Then Jesus said to Simon, <font color="red">“Don’t be afraid; from now on you will fish for people.”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_11"><sup>11</sup>So they pulled their boats up on shore, left everything and followed him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Heals a Man With Leprosy </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_5_12"> <sup>12</sup>While Jesus was in one of the towns, a man came along who was covered with leprosy.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word traditionally translated leprosy was used for various diseases affecting the skin.">⚓</a> When he saw Jesus, he fell with his face to the ground and begged him, “Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man. <font color="red">“I am willing,”</font> he said. <font color="red">“Be clean!”</font> And immediately the leprosy left him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then Jesus ordered him, <font color="red">“Don’t tell anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer the sacrifices that Moses commanded for your cleansing, as a testimony to them.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_15"> <sup>15</sup>Yet the news about him spread all the more, so that crowds of people came to hear him and to be healed of their sicknesses. </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_16"><sup>16</sup>But Jesus often withdrew to lonely places and prayed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Forgives and Heals a Paralyzed Man </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_5_17"> <sup>17</sup>One day Jesus was teaching, and Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there. They had come from every village of Galilee and from Judea and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was with Jesus to heal the sick. </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_18"><sup>18</sup>Some men came carrying a paralyzed man on a mat and tried to take him into the house to lay him before Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_19"><sup>19</sup>When they could not find a way to do this because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and lowered him on his mat through the tiles into the middle of the crowd, right in front of Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_20"> <sup>20</sup>When Jesus saw their faith, he said, <font color="red">“Friend, your sins are forgiven.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_21"> <sup>21</sup>The Pharisees and the teachers of the law began thinking to themselves, “Who is this fellow who speaks blasphemy? Who can forgive sins but God alone?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_22"> <sup>22</sup>Jesus knew what they were thinking and asked, <font color="red">“Why are you thinking these things in your hearts?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">Which is easier: to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.”</font> So he said to the paralyzed man, <font color="red">“I tell you, get up, take your mat and go home.”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_25"><sup>25</sup>Immediately he stood up in front of them, took what he had been lying on and went home praising God. </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_26"><sup>26</sup>Everyone was amazed and gave praise to God. They were filled with awe and said, “We have seen remarkable things today.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Calls Levi and Eats With Sinners </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_5_27"> <sup>27</sup>After this, Jesus went out and saw a tax collector by the name of Levi sitting at his tax booth. <font color="red">“Follow me,”</font> Jesus said to him, </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_28"><sup>28</sup>and Levi got up, left everything and followed him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_29"> <sup>29</sup>Then Levi held a great banquet for Jesus at his house, and a large crowd of tax collectors and others were eating with them. </span>
<span class="verse lu_5_30"><sup>30</sup>But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law who belonged to their sect complained to his disciples, “Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_31"> <sup>31</sup>Jesus answered them, <font color="red">“It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_32"><sup>32</sup><font color="red">I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Questioned About Fasting </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_5_33"> <sup>33</sup>They said to him, “John’s disciples often fast and pray, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours go on eating and drinking.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_34"> <sup>34</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“Can you make the friends of the bridegroom fast while he is with them?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_35"><sup>35</sup><font color="red">But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them; in those days they will fast.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_36"> <sup>36</sup>He told them this parable: <font color="red">“No one tears a piece out of a new garment to patch an old one. Otherwise, they will have torn the new garment, and the patch from the new will not match the old.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_37"><sup>37</sup><font color="red">And no one pours new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the new wine will burst the skins; the wine will run out and the wineskins will be ruined.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_38"><sup>38</sup><font color="red">No, new wine must be poured into new wineskins.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_5_39"><sup>39</sup><font color="red">And no one after drinking old wine wants the new, for they say, ‘The old is better.’ ”</font><br/></span>
