---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Jesus Is Lord of the Sabbath </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>One Sabbath Jesus was going through the grainfields, and his disciples began to pick some heads of grain, rub them in their hands and eat the kernels. </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_2"><sup>2</sup>Some of the Pharisees asked, “Why are you doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_3"> <sup>3</sup>Jesus answered them, <font color="red">“Have you never read what David did when he and his companions were hungry?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_4"><sup>4</sup><font color="red">He entered the house of God, and taking the consecrated bread, he ate what is lawful only for priests to eat. And he also gave some to his companions.”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_5"><sup>5</sup>Then Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>On another Sabbath he went into the synagogue and was teaching, and a man was there whose right hand was shriveled. </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_7"><sup>7</sup>The Pharisees and the teachers of the law were looking for a reason to accuse Jesus, so they watched him closely to see if he would heal on the Sabbath. </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_8"><sup>8</sup>But Jesus knew what they were thinking and said to the man with the shriveled hand, <font color="red">“Get up and stand in front of everyone.”</font> So he got up and stood there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then Jesus said to them, <font color="red">“I ask you, which is lawful on the Sabbath: to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_10"> <sup>10</sup>He looked around at them all, and then said to the man, <font color="red">“Stretch out your hand.”</font> He did so, and his hand was completely restored. </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_11"><sup>11</sup>But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law were furious and began to discuss with one another what they might do to Jesus. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Twelve Apostles </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>One of those days Jesus went out to a mountainside to pray, and spent the night praying to God. </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_13"><sup>13</sup>When morning came, he called his disciples to him and chose twelve of them, whom he also designated apostles: </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_14"><sup>14</sup>Simon (whom he named Peter), his brother Andrew, James, John, Philip, Bartholomew, </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_15"><sup>15</sup>Matthew, Thomas, James son of Alphaeus, Simon who was called the Zealot, </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_16"><sup>16</sup>Judas son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Blessings and Woes </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>He went down with them and stood on a level place. A large crowd of his disciples was there and a great number of people from all over Judea, from Jerusalem, and from the coastal region around Tyre and Sidon, </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_18"><sup>18</sup>who had come to hear him and to be healed of their diseases. Those troubled by impure spirits were cured, </span>
<span class="verse lu_6_19"><sup>19</sup>and the people all tried to touch him, because power was coming from him and healing them all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_20"> <sup>20</sup>Looking at his disciples, he said: <br/>  <font color="red">“Blessed are you who are poor, </font><br/>   <font color="red">for yours is the kingdom of God.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_21">  <sup>21</sup><font color="red">Blessed are you who hunger now, </font><br/>   <font color="red">for you will be satisfied. </font><br/>  <font color="red">Blessed are you who weep now, </font><br/>   <font color="red">for you will laugh.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_22">  <sup>22</sup><font color="red">Blessed are you when people hate you, </font><br/>   <font color="red">when they exclude you and insult you </font><br/>   <font color="red">and reject your name as evil, </font><br/>    <font color="red">because of the Son of Man.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_23"> <sup>23</sup><font color="red">“Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, because great is your reward in heaven. For that is how their ancestors treated the prophets.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_24">  <sup>24</sup><font color="red">“But woe to you who are rich, </font><br/>   <font color="red">for you have already received your comfort.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_25">  <sup>25</sup><font color="red">Woe to you who are well fed now, </font><br/>   <font color="red">for you will go hungry. </font><br/>  <font color="red">Woe to you who laugh now, </font><br/>   <font color="red">for you will mourn and weep.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_26">  <sup>26</sup><font color="red">Woe to you when everyone speaks well of you, </font><br/>   <font color="red">for that is how their ancestors treated the false prophets.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Love for Enemies </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_6_27"> <sup>27</sup><font color="red">“But to you who are listening I say: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_28"><sup>28</sup><font color="red">bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_29"><sup>29</sup><font color="red">If someone slaps you on one cheek, turn to them the other also. If someone takes your coat, do not withhold your shirt from them.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_30"><sup>30</sup><font color="red">Give to everyone who asks you, and if anyone takes what belongs to you, do not demand it back.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_31"><sup>31</sup><font color="red">Do to others as you would have them do to you.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_32"> <sup>32</sup><font color="red">“If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners love those who love them.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_33"><sup>33</sup><font color="red">And if you do good to those who are good to you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do that.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_34"><sup>34</sup><font color="red">And if you lend to those from whom you expect repayment, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, expecting to be repaid in full.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_35"><sup>35</sup><font color="red">But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to get anything back. Then your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High, because he is kind to the ungrateful and wicked.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_36"><sup>36</sup><font color="red">Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Judging Others </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_6_37"> <sup>37</sup><font color="red">“Do not judge, and you will not be judged. Do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_38"><sup>38</sup><font color="red">Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken together and running over, will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_39"> <sup>39</sup>He also told them this parable: <font color="red">“Can the blind lead the blind? Will they not both fall into a pit?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_40"><sup>40</sup><font color="red">The student is not above the teacher, but everyone who is fully trained will be like their teacher.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_41"> <sup>41</sup><font color="red">“Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother’s eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_42"><sup>42</sup><font color="red">How can you say to your brother, ‘Brother, let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when you yourself fail to see the plank in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Tree and Its Fruit </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_6_43"> <sup>43</sup><font color="red">“No good tree bears bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_44"><sup>44</sup><font color="red">Each tree is recognized by its own fruit. People do not pick figs from thornbushes, or grapes from briers.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_45"><sup>45</sup><font color="red">A good man brings good things out of the good stored up in his heart, and an evil man brings evil things out of the evil stored up in his heart. For the mouth speaks what the heart is full of.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Wise and Foolish Builders </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_6_46"> <sup>46</sup><font color="red">“Why do you call me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ and do not do what I say?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_47"><sup>47</sup><font color="red">As for everyone who comes to me and hears my words and puts them into practice, I will show you what they are like.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_48"><sup>48</sup><font color="red">They are like a man building a house, who dug down deep and laid the foundation on rock. When a flood came, the torrent struck that house but could not shake it, because it was well built.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_6_49"><sup>49</sup><font color="red">But the one who hears my words and does not put them into practice is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation. The moment the torrent struck that house, it collapsed and its destruction was complete.”</font><br/></span>
