---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>The Faith of the Centurion </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Jesus had finished saying all this to the people who were listening, he entered Capernaum. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_2"><sup>2</sup>There a centurion’s servant, whom his master valued highly, was sick and about to die. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_3"><sup>3</sup>The centurion heard of Jesus and sent some elders of the Jews to him, asking him to come and heal his servant. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_4"><sup>4</sup>When they came to Jesus, they pleaded earnestly with him, “This man deserves to have you do this, </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_5"><sup>5</sup>because he loves our nation and has built our synagogue.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_6"><sup>6</sup>So Jesus went with them. <br/> He was not far from the house when the centurion sent friends to say to him: “Lord, don’t trouble yourself, for I do not deserve to have you come under my roof. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_7"><sup>7</sup>That is why I did not even consider myself worthy to come to you. But say the word, and my servant will be healed. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_8"><sup>8</sup>For I myself am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and that one, ‘Come,’ and he comes. I say to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_9"> <sup>9</sup>When Jesus heard this, he was amazed at him, and turning to the crowd following him, he said, <font color="red">“I tell you, I have not found such great faith even in Israel.”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_10"><sup>10</sup>Then the men who had been sent returned to the house and found the servant well. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Raises a Widow’s Son </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_7_11"> <sup>11</sup>Soon afterward, Jesus went to a town called Nain, and his disciples and a large crowd went along with him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_12"><sup>12</sup>As he approached the town gate, a dead person was being carried out—the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a large crowd from the town was with her. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_13"><sup>13</sup>When the Lord saw her, his heart went out to her and he said, <font color="red">“Don’t cry.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then he went up and touched the bier they were carrying him on, and the bearers stood still. He said, <font color="red">“Young man, I say to you, get up!”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_15"><sup>15</sup>The dead man sat up and began to talk, and Jesus gave him back to his mother. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_16"> <sup>16</sup>They were all filled with awe and praised God. “A great prophet has appeared among us,” they said. “God has come to help his people.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_17"><sup>17</sup>This news about Jesus spread throughout Judea and the surrounding country. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus and John the Baptist </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_7_18"> <sup>18</sup>John’s disciples told him about all these things. Calling two of them, </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_19"><sup>19</sup>he sent them to the Lord to ask, “Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect someone else?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_20"> <sup>20</sup>When the men came to Jesus, they said, “John the Baptist sent us to you to ask, ‘Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect someone else?’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_21"> <sup>21</sup>At that very time Jesus cured many who had diseases, sicknesses and evil spirits, and gave sight to many who were blind. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_22"><sup>22</sup>So he replied to the messengers, <font color="red">“Go back and report to John what you have seen and heard: The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosy</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word traditionally translated leprosy was used for various diseases affecting the skin.">⚓</a><font color="red">are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the good news is proclaimed to the poor.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">Blessed is anyone who does not stumble on account of me.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_24"> <sup>24</sup>After John’s messengers left, Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John: <font color="red">“What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed swayed by the wind?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_25"><sup>25</sup><font color="red">If not, what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? No, those who wear expensive clothes and indulge in luxury are in palaces.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_27"><sup>27</sup><font color="red">This is the one about whom it is written: </font><br/>  <font color="red">“ ‘I will send my messenger ahead of you, </font><br/>   <font color="red">who will prepare your way before you.’</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 7:27 Mal. 3:1 ">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_28"> <sup>28</sup><font color="red">I tell you, among those born of women there is no one greater than John; yet the one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_29"> <sup>29</sup>(All the people, even the tax collectors, when they heard Jesus’ words, acknowledged that God’s way was right, because they had been baptized by John. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_30"><sup>30</sup>But the Pharisees and the experts in the law rejected God’s purpose for themselves, because they had not been baptized by John.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_31"> <sup>31</sup>Jesus went on to say, <font color="red">“To what, then, can I compare the people of this generation? What are they like?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_32"><sup>32</sup><font color="red">They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling out to each other: </font><br/>  <font color="red">“ ‘We played the pipe for you, </font><br/>   <font color="red">and you did not dance; </font><br/>  <font color="red">we sang a dirge, </font><br/>   <font color="red">and you did not cry.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_33"><sup>33</sup><font color="red">For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_34"><sup>34</sup><font color="red">The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Here is a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_35"><sup>35</sup><font color="red">But wisdom is proved right by all her children.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Anointed by a Sinful Woman </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_7_36"> <sup>36</sup>When one of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him, he went to the Pharisee’s house and reclined at the table. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_37"><sup>37</sup>A woman in that town who lived a sinful life learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee’s house, so she came there with an alabaster jar of perfume. </span>
<span class="verse lu_7_38"><sup>38</sup>As she stood behind him at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. Then she wiped them with her hair, kissed them and poured perfume on them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_39"> <sup>39</sup>When the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, “If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him and what kind of woman she is—that she is a sinner.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_40"> <sup>40</sup>Jesus answered him, <font color="red">“Simon, I have something to tell you.”</font><br/> “Tell me, teacher,” he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_41"> <sup>41</sup><font color="red">“Two people owed money to a certain moneylender. One owed him five hundred denarii,</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 7:41 A denarius was the usual daily wage of a day laborer (see Matt. 20:2). ">⚓</a><font color="red">and the other fifty.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_42"><sup>42</sup><font color="red">Neither of them had the money to pay him back, so he forgave the debts of both. Now which of them will love him more?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_43"> <sup>43</sup>Simon replied, “I suppose the one who had the bigger debt forgiven.” <br/> <font color="red">“You have judged correctly,”</font> Jesus said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_44"> <sup>44</sup>Then he turned toward the woman and said to Simon, <font color="red">“Do you see this woman? I came into your house. You did not give me any water for my feet, but she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_45"><sup>45</sup><font color="red">You did not give me a kiss, but this woman, from the time I entered, has not stopped kissing my feet.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_46"><sup>46</sup><font color="red">You did not put oil on my head, but she has poured perfume on my feet.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_47"><sup>47</sup><font color="red">Therefore, I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven—as her great love has shown. But whoever has been forgiven little loves little.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_48"> <sup>48</sup>Then Jesus said to her, <font color="red">“Your sins are forgiven.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_49"> <sup>49</sup>The other guests began to say among themselves, “Who is this who even forgives sins?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_7_50"> <sup>50</sup>Jesus said to the woman, <font color="red">“Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”</font><br/></span>
