---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>The Parable of the Sower </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>After this, Jesus traveled about from one town and village to another, proclaiming the good news of the kingdom of God. The Twelve were with him, </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_2"><sup>2</sup>and also some women who had been cured of evil spirits and diseases: Mary (called Magdalene) from whom seven demons had come out; </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_3"><sup>3</sup>Joanna the wife of Chuza, the manager of Herod’s household; Susanna; and many others. These women were helping to support them out of their own means. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_4"> <sup>4</sup>While a large crowd was gathering and people were coming to Jesus from town after town, he told this parable: </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">“A farmer went out to sow his seed. As he was scattering the seed, some fell along the path; it was trampled on, and the birds ate it up.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">Some fell on rocky ground, and when it came up, the plants withered because they had no moisture.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_7"><sup>7</sup><font color="red">Other seed fell among thorns, which grew up with it and choked the plants.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_8"><sup>8</sup><font color="red">Still other seed fell on good soil. It came up and yielded a crop, a hundred times more than was sown.”</font><br/> When he said this, he called out, <font color="red">“Whoever has ears to hear, let them hear.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>His disciples asked him what this parable meant. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_10"><sup>10</sup>He said, <font color="red">“The knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of God has been given to you, but to others I speak in parables, so that, </font><br/>  <font color="red">“ ‘though seeing, they may not see; </font><br/>   <font color="red">though hearing, they may not understand.’</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 8:10 Isaiah 6:9 ">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_11"> <sup>11</sup><font color="red">“This is the meaning of the parable: The seed is the word of God.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_12"><sup>12</sup><font color="red">Those along the path are the ones who hear, and then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">Those on the rocky ground are the ones who receive the word with joy when they hear it, but they have no root. They believe for a while, but in the time of testing they fall away.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_14"><sup>14</sup><font color="red">The seed that fell among thorns stands for those who hear, but as they go on their way they are choked by life’s worries, riches and pleasures, and they do not mature.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_15"><sup>15</sup><font color="red">But the seed on good soil stands for those with a noble and good heart, who hear the word, retain it, and by persevering produce a crop.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>A Lamp on a Stand </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_8_16"> <sup>16</sup><font color="red">“No one lights a lamp and hides it in a clay jar or puts it under a bed. Instead, they put it on a stand, so that those who come in can see the light.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_17"><sup>17</sup><font color="red">For there is nothing hidden that will not be disclosed, and nothing concealed that will not be known or brought out into the open.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_18"><sup>18</sup><font color="red">Therefore consider carefully how you listen. Whoever has will be given more; whoever does not have, even what they think they have will be taken from them.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus’ Mother and Brothers </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_8_19"> <sup>19</sup>Now Jesus’ mother and brothers came to see him, but they were not able to get near him because of the crowd. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_20"><sup>20</sup>Someone told him, “Your mother and brothers are standing outside, wanting to see you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_21"> <sup>21</sup>He replied, <font color="red">“My mother and brothers are those who hear God’s word and put it into practice.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Calms the Storm </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_8_22"> <sup>22</sup>One day Jesus said to his disciples, <font color="red">“Let us go over to the other side of the lake.”</font> So they got into a boat and set out. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_23"><sup>23</sup>As they sailed, he fell asleep. A squall came down on the lake, so that the boat was being swamped, and they were in great danger. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_24"> <sup>24</sup>The disciples went and woke him, saying, “Master, Master, we’re going to drown!” <br/> He got up and rebuked the wind and the raging waters; the storm subsided, and all was calm. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_25"><sup>25</sup><font color="red">“Where is your faith?”</font> he asked his disciples. <br/> In fear and amazement they asked one another, “Who is this? He commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Restores a Demon-Possessed Man </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_8_26"> <sup>26</sup>They sailed to the region of the Gerasenes,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts Gadarenes ; other manuscripts Gergesenes ; also in verse 37">⚓</a> which is across the lake from Galilee. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_27"><sup>27</sup>When Jesus stepped ashore, he was met by a demon-possessed man from the town. For a long time this man had not worn clothes or lived in a house, but had lived in the tombs. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_28"><sup>28</sup>When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell at his feet, shouting at the top of his voice, “What do you want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, don’t torture me!” </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_29"><sup>29</sup>For Jesus had commanded the impure spirit to come out of the man. Many times it had seized him, and though he was chained hand and foot and kept under guard, he had broken his chains and had been driven by the demon into solitary places. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_30"> <sup>30</sup>Jesus asked him, <font color="red">“What is your name?”</font><br/> “Legion,” he replied, because many demons had gone into him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_31"><sup>31</sup>And they begged Jesus repeatedly not to order them to go into the Abyss. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_32"> <sup>32</sup>A large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside. The demons begged Jesus to let them go into the pigs, and he gave them permission. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_33"><sup>33</sup>When the demons came out of the man, they went into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and was drowned. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_34"> <sup>34</sup>When those tending the pigs saw what had happened, they ran off and reported this in the town and countryside, </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_35"><sup>35</sup>and the people went out to see what had happened. When they came to Jesus, they found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting at Jesus’ feet, dressed and in his right mind; and they were afraid. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_36"><sup>36</sup>Those who had seen it told the people how the demon-possessed man had been cured. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_37"><sup>37</sup>Then all the people of the region of the Gerasenes asked Jesus to leave them, because they were overcome with fear. So he got into the boat and left. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_38"> <sup>38</sup>The man from whom the demons had gone out begged to go with him, but Jesus sent him away, saying, </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_39"><sup>39</sup><font color="red">“Return home and tell how much God has done for you.”</font> So the man went away and told all over town how much Jesus had done for him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Raises a Dead Girl and Heals a Sick Woman </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_8_40"> <sup>40</sup>Now when Jesus returned, a crowd welcomed him, for they were all expecting him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_41"><sup>41</sup>Then a man named Jairus, a synagogue leader, came and fell at Jesus’ feet, pleading with him to come to his house </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_42"><sup>42</sup>because his only daughter, a girl of about twelve, was dying. <br/> As Jesus was on his way, the crowds almost crushed him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_43"><sup>43</sup>And a woman was there who had been subject to bleeding for twelve years,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many manuscripts years, and she had spent all she had on doctors">⚓</a> but no one could heal her. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_44"><sup>44</sup>She came up behind him and touched the edge of his cloak, and immediately her bleeding stopped. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_45"> <sup>45</sup><font color="red">“Who touched me?”</font> Jesus asked. <br/> When they all denied it, Peter said, “Master, the people are crowding and pressing against you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_46"> <sup>46</sup>But Jesus said, <font color="red">“Someone touched me; I know that power has gone out from me.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_47"> <sup>47</sup>Then the woman, seeing that she could not go unnoticed, came trembling and fell at his feet. In the presence of all the people, she told why she had touched him and how she had been instantly healed. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_48"><sup>48</sup>Then he said to her, <font color="red">“Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_49"> <sup>49</sup>While Jesus was still speaking, someone came from the house of Jairus, the synagogue leader. “Your daughter is dead,” he said. “Don’t bother the teacher anymore.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_50"> <sup>50</sup>Hearing this, Jesus said to Jairus, <font color="red">“Don’t be afraid; just believe, and she will be healed.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_51"> <sup>51</sup>When he arrived at the house of Jairus, he did not let anyone go in with him except Peter, John and James, and the child’s father and mother. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_52"><sup>52</sup>Meanwhile, all the people were wailing and mourning for her. <font color="red">“Stop wailing,”</font> Jesus said. <font color="red">“She is not dead but asleep.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_53"> <sup>53</sup>They laughed at him, knowing that she was dead. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_54"><sup>54</sup>But he took her by the hand and said, <font color="red">“My child, get up!”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_8_55"><sup>55</sup>Her spirit returned, and at once she stood up. Then Jesus told them to give her something to eat. </span>
<span class="verse lu_8_56"><sup>56</sup>Her parents were astonished, but he ordered them not to tell anyone what had happened. <br/></span>
