---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>Jesus Sends Out the Twelve </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Jesus had called the Twelve together, he gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to cure diseases, </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_2"><sup>2</sup>and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_3"><sup>3</sup>He told them: <font color="red">“Take nothing for the journey—no staff, no bag, no bread, no money, no extra shirt.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_4"><sup>4</sup><font color="red">Whatever house you enter, stay there until you leave that town.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">If people do not welcome you, leave their town and shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_6"><sup>6</sup>So they set out and went from village to village, proclaiming the good news and healing people everywhere. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now Herod the tetrarch heard about all that was going on. And he was perplexed because some were saying that John had been raised from the dead, </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_8"><sup>8</sup>others that Elijah had appeared, and still others that one of the prophets of long ago had come back to life. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_9"><sup>9</sup>But Herod said, “I beheaded John. Who, then, is this I hear such things about?” And he tried to see him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Feeds the Five Thousand </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_10"> <sup>10</sup>When the apostles returned, they reported to Jesus what they had done. Then he took them with him and they withdrew by themselves to a town called Bethsaida, </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_11"><sup>11</sup>but the crowds learned about it and followed him. He welcomed them and spoke to them about the kingdom of God, and healed those who needed healing. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_12"> <sup>12</sup>Late in the afternoon the Twelve came to him and said, “Send the crowd away so they can go to the surrounding villages and countryside and find food and lodging, because we are in a remote place here.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_13"> <sup>13</sup>He replied, <font color="red">“You give them something to eat.”</font><br/> They answered, “We have only five loaves of bread and two fish—unless we go and buy food for all this crowd.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_14"><sup>14</sup>(About five thousand men were there.) <br/> But he said to his disciples, <font color="red">“Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each.”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_15"><sup>15</sup>The disciples did so, and everyone sat down. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_16"><sup>16</sup>Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, he gave thanks and broke them. Then he gave them to the disciples to distribute to the people. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_17"><sup>17</sup>They all ate and were satisfied, and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces that were left over. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Peter Declares That Jesus Is the Messiah </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_18"> <sup>18</sup>Once when Jesus was praying in private and his disciples were with him, he asked them, <font color="red">“Who do the crowds say I am?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_19"> <sup>19</sup>They replied, “Some say John the Baptist; others say Elijah; and still others, that one of the prophets of long ago has come back to life.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_20"> <sup>20</sup><font color="red">“But what about you?”</font> he asked. <font color="red">“Who do you say I am?”</font><br/> Peter answered, “God’s Messiah.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Predicts His Death </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_21"> <sup>21</sup>Jesus strictly warned them not to tell this to anyone. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_22"><sup>22</sup>And he said, <font color="red">“The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests and the teachers of the law, and he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_23"> <sup>23</sup>Then he said to them all: <font color="red">“Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross daily and follow me.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">For whoever wants to save their life will lose it, but whoever loses their life for me will save it.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_25"><sup>25</sup><font color="red">What good is it for someone to gain the whole world, and yet lose or forfeit their very self?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">Whoever is ashamed of me and my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of them when he comes in his glory and in the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_27"> <sup>27</sup><font color="red">“Truly I tell you, some who are standing here will not taste death before they see the kingdom of God.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Transfiguration </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_28"> <sup>28</sup>About eight days after Jesus said this, he took Peter, John and James with him and went up onto a mountain to pray. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_29"><sup>29</sup>As he was praying, the appearance of his face changed, and his clothes became as bright as a flash of lightning. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_30"><sup>30</sup>Two men, Moses and Elijah, appeared in glorious splendor, talking with Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_31"><sup>31</sup>They spoke about his departure,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek exodos">⚓</a> which he was about to bring to fulfillment at Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_32"><sup>32</sup>Peter and his companions were very sleepy, but when they became fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men standing with him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_33"><sup>33</sup>As the men were leaving Jesus, Peter said to him, “Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters—one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.” (He did not know what he was saying.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_34"> <sup>34</sup>While he was speaking, a cloud appeared and covered them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_35"><sup>35</sup>A voice came from the cloud, saying, “This is my Son, whom I have chosen; listen to him.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_36"><sup>36</sup>When the voice had spoken, they found that Jesus was alone. The disciples kept this to themselves and did not tell anyone at that time what they had seen. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Heals a Demon-Possessed Boy </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_37"> <sup>37</sup>The next day, when they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_38"><sup>38</sup>A man in the crowd called out, “Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_39"><sup>39</sup>A spirit seizes him and he suddenly screams; it throws him into convulsions so that he foams at the mouth. It scarcely ever leaves him and is destroying him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_40"><sup>40</sup>I begged your disciples to drive it out, but they could not.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_41"> <sup>41</sup><font color="red">“You unbelieving and perverse generation,”</font> Jesus replied, <font color="red">“how long shall I stay with you and put up with you? Bring your son here.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_42"> <sup>42</sup>Even while the boy was coming, the demon threw him to the ground in a convulsion. But Jesus rebuked the impure spirit, healed the boy and gave him back to his father. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_43"><sup>43</sup>And they were all amazed at the greatness of God. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Predicts His Death a Second Time </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_43"> While everyone was marveling at all that Jesus did, he said to his disciples, </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_44"><sup>44</sup><font color="red">“Listen carefully to what I am about to tell you: The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_45"><sup>45</sup>But they did not understand what this meant. It was hidden from them, so that they did not grasp it, and they were afraid to ask him about it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_46"> <sup>46</sup>An argument started among the disciples as to which of them would be the greatest. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_47"><sup>47</sup>Jesus, knowing their thoughts, took a little child and had him stand beside him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_48"><sup>48</sup>Then he said to them, <font color="red">“Whoever welcomes this little child in my name welcomes me; and whoever welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me. For it is the one who is least among you all who is the greatest.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_49"> <sup>49</sup>“Master,” said John, “we saw someone driving out demons in your name and we tried to stop him, because he is not one of us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_50"> <sup>50</sup><font color="red">“Do not stop him,”</font> Jesus said, <font color="red">“for whoever is not against you is for you.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Samaritan Opposition </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_51"> <sup>51</sup>As the time approached for him to be taken up to heaven, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_52"><sup>52</sup>And he sent messengers on ahead, who went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him; </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_53"><sup>53</sup>but the people there did not welcome him, because he was heading for Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_54"><sup>54</sup>When the disciples James and John saw this, they asked, “Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven to destroy them<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts them, just as Elijah did">⚓</a> ?” </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_55"><sup>55</sup>But Jesus turned and rebuked them. </span>
<span class="verse lu_9_56"><sup>56</sup>Then he and his disciples went to another village. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Cost of Following Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_9_57"> <sup>57</sup>As they were walking along the road, a man said to him, “I will follow you wherever you go.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_58"> <sup>58</sup>Jesus replied, <font color="red">“Foxes have dens and birds have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_59"> <sup>59</sup>He said to another man, <font color="red">“Follow me.”</font><br/> But he replied, “Lord, first let me go and bury my father.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_60"> <sup>60</sup>Jesus said to him, <font color="red">“Let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and proclaim the kingdom of God.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_61"> <sup>61</sup>Still another said, “I will follow you, Lord; but first let me go back and say goodbye to my family.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_9_62"> <sup>62</sup>Jesus replied, <font color="red">“No one who puts a hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God.”</font><br/></span>
