---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Warnings and Encouragements </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>Meanwhile, when a crowd of many thousands had gathered, so that they were trampling on one another, Jesus began to speak first to his disciples, saying: <font color="red">“Be</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or speak to his disciples, saying: “First of all, be">⚓</a><font color="red">on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_2"><sup>2</sup><font color="red">There is nothing concealed that will not be disclosed, or hidden that will not be made known.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_3"><sup>3</sup><font color="red">What you have said in the dark will be heard in the daylight, and what you have whispered in the ear in the inner rooms will be proclaimed from the roofs.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_4"> <sup>4</sup><font color="red">“I tell you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body and after that can do no more.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">But I will show you whom you should fear: Fear him who, after your body has been killed, has authority to throw you into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? Yet not one of them is forgotten by God.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_7"><sup>7</sup><font color="red">Indeed, the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Don’t be afraid; you are worth more than many sparrows.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_8"> <sup>8</sup><font color="red">“I tell you, whoever publicly acknowledges me before others, the Son of Man will also acknowledge before the angels of God.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">But whoever disowns me before others will be disowned before the angels of God.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but anyone who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_11"> <sup>11</sup><font color="red">“When you are brought before synagogues, rulers and authorities, do not worry about how you will defend yourselves or what you will say,</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_12"><sup>12</sup><font color="red">for the Holy Spirit will teach you at that time what you should say.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Parable of the Rich Fool </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>Someone in the crowd said to him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_14"> <sup>14</sup>Jesus replied, <font color="red">“Man, who appointed me a judge or an arbiter between you?”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_15"><sup>15</sup>Then he said to them, <font color="red">“Watch out! Be on your guard against all kinds of greed; life does not consist in an abundance of possessions.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_16"> <sup>16</sup>And he told them this parable: <font color="red">“The ground of a certain rich man yielded an abundant harvest.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_17"><sup>17</sup><font color="red">He thought to himself, ‘What shall I do? I have no place to store my crops.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_18"> <sup>18</sup><font color="red">“Then he said, ‘This is what I’ll do. I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones, and there I will store my surplus grain.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_19"><sup>19</sup><font color="red">And I’ll say to myself, “You have plenty of grain laid up for many years. Take life easy; eat, drink and be merry.” ’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_20"> <sup>20</sup><font color="red">“But God said to him, ‘You fool! This very night your life will be demanded from you. Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_21"> <sup>21</sup><font color="red">“This is how it will be with whoever stores up things for themselves but is not rich toward God.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Do Not Worry </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_12_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then Jesus said to his disciples: <font color="red">“Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat; or about your body, what you will wear.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">For life is more than food, and the body more than clothes.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">Consider the ravens: They do not sow or reap, they have no storeroom or barn; yet God feeds them. And how much more valuable you are than birds!</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_25"><sup>25</sup><font color="red">Who of you by worrying can add a single hour to your life</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or single cubit to your height">⚓</a><font color="red">?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">Since you cannot do this very little thing, why do you worry about the rest?</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_27"> <sup>27</sup><font color="red">“Consider how the wild flowers grow. They do not labor or spin. Yet I tell you, not even Solomon in all his splendor was dressed like one of these.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_28"><sup>28</sup><font color="red">If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today, and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, how much more will he clothe you—you of little faith!</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_29"><sup>29</sup><font color="red">And do not set your heart on what you will eat or drink; do not worry about it.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_30"><sup>30</sup><font color="red">For the pagan world runs after all such things, and your Father knows that you need them.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_31"><sup>31</sup><font color="red">But seek his kingdom, and these things will be given to you as well.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_32"> <sup>32</sup><font color="red">“Do not be afraid, little flock, for your Father has been pleased to give you the kingdom.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_33"><sup>33</sup><font color="red">Sell your possessions and give to the poor. Provide purses for yourselves that will not wear out, a treasure in heaven that will never fail, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_34"><sup>34</sup><font color="red">For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Watchfulness </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_12_35"> <sup>35</sup><font color="red">“Be dressed ready for service and keep your lamps burning,</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_36"><sup>36</sup><font color="red">like servants waiting for their master to return from a wedding banquet, so that when he comes and knocks they can immediately open the door for him.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_37"><sup>37</sup><font color="red">It will be good for those servants whose master finds them watching when he comes. Truly I tell you, he will dress himself to serve, will have them recline at the table and will come and wait on them.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_38"><sup>38</sup><font color="red">It will be good for those servants whose master finds them ready, even if he comes in the middle of the night or toward daybreak.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_39"><sup>39</sup><font color="red">But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have let his house be broken into.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_40"><sup>40</sup><font color="red">You also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_41"> <sup>41</sup>Peter asked, “Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or to everyone?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_42"> <sup>42</sup>The Lord answered, <font color="red">“Who then is the faithful and wise manager, whom the master puts in charge of his servants to give them their food allowance at the proper time?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_43"><sup>43</sup><font color="red">It will be good for that servant whom the master finds doing so when he returns.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_44"><sup>44</sup><font color="red">Truly I tell you, he will put him in charge of all his possessions.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_45"><sup>45</sup><font color="red">But suppose the servant says to himself, ‘My master is taking a long time in coming,’ and he then begins to beat the other servants, both men and women, and to eat and drink and get drunk.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_46"><sup>46</sup><font color="red">The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he is not aware of. He will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the unbelievers.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_47"> <sup>47</sup><font color="red">“The servant who knows the master’s will and does not get ready or does not do what the master wants will be beaten with many blows.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_48"><sup>48</sup><font color="red">But the one who does not know and does things deserving punishment will be beaten with few blows. From everyone who has been given much, much will be demanded; and from the one who has been entrusted with much, much more will be asked.</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Not Peace but Division </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_12_49"> <sup>49</sup><font color="red">“I have come to bring fire on the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled!</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_50"><sup>50</sup><font color="red">But I have a baptism to undergo, and what constraint I am under until it is completed!</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_51"><sup>51</sup><font color="red">Do you think I came to bring peace on earth? No, I tell you, but division.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_52"><sup>52</sup><font color="red">From now on there will be five in one family divided against each other, three against two and two against three.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_53"><sup>53</sup><font color="red">They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Interpreting the Times </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_12_54"> <sup>54</sup>He said to the crowd: <font color="red">“When you see a cloud rising in the west, immediately you say, ‘It’s going to rain,’ and it does.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_55"><sup>55</sup><font color="red">And when the south wind blows, you say, ‘It’s going to be hot,’ and it is.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_56"><sup>56</sup><font color="red">Hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky. How is it that you don’t know how to interpret this present time?</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_57"> <sup>57</sup><font color="red">“Why don’t you judge for yourselves what is right?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_58"><sup>58</sup><font color="red">As you are going with your adversary to the magistrate, try hard to be reconciled on the way, or your adversary may drag you off to the judge, and the judge turn you over to the officer, and the officer throw you into prison.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_12_59"><sup>59</sup><font color="red">I tell you, you will not get out until you have paid the last penny.”</font><br/></span>
