---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Repent or Perish </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now there were some present at that time who told Jesus about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. </span>
<span class="verse lu_13_2"><sup>2</sup>Jesus answered, <font color="red">“Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered this way?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_3"><sup>3</sup><font color="red">I tell you, no! But unless you repent, you too will all perish.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_4"><sup>4</sup><font color="red">Or those eighteen who died when the tower in Siloam fell on them—do you think they were more guilty than all the others living in Jerusalem?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">I tell you, no! But unless you repent, you too will all perish.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then he told this parable: <font color="red">“A man had a fig tree growing in his vineyard, and he went to look for fruit on it but did not find any.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_7"><sup>7</sup><font color="red">So he said to the man who took care of the vineyard, ‘For three years now I’ve been coming to look for fruit on this fig tree and haven’t found any. Cut it down! Why should it use up the soil?’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_8"> <sup>8</sup><font color="red">“ ‘Sir,’ the man replied, ‘leave it alone for one more year, and I’ll dig around it and fertilize it.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">If it bears fruit next year, fine! If not, then cut it down.’ ”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Heals a Crippled Woman on the Sabbath </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_13_10"> <sup>10</sup>On a Sabbath Jesus was teaching in one of the synagogues, </span>
<span class="verse lu_13_11"><sup>11</sup>and a woman was there who had been crippled by a spirit for eighteen years. She was bent over and could not straighten up at all. </span>
<span class="verse lu_13_12"><sup>12</sup>When Jesus saw her, he called her forward and said to her, <font color="red">“Woman, you are set free from your infirmity.”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_13"><sup>13</sup>Then he put his hands on her, and immediately she straightened up and praised God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_14"> <sup>14</sup>Indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, the synagogue leader said to the people, “There are six days for work. So come and be healed on those days, not on the Sabbath.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_15"> <sup>15</sup>The Lord answered him, <font color="red">“You hypocrites! Doesn’t each of you on the Sabbath untie your ox or donkey from the stall and lead it out to give it water?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_16"><sup>16</sup><font color="red">Then should not this woman, a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has kept bound for eighteen long years, be set free on the Sabbath day from what bound her?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_17"> <sup>17</sup>When he said this, all his opponents were humiliated, but the people were delighted with all the wonderful things he was doing. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Parables of the Mustard Seed and the Yeast </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_13_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then Jesus asked, <font color="red">“What is the kingdom of God like? What shall I compare it to?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_19"><sup>19</sup><font color="red">It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and planted in his garden. It grew and became a tree, and the birds perched in its branches.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_20"> <sup>20</sup>Again he asked, <font color="red">“What shall I compare the kingdom of God to?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_21"><sup>21</sup><font color="red">It is like yeast that a woman took and mixed into about sixty pounds</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 27 kilograms">⚓</a><font color="red">of flour until it worked all through the dough.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Narrow Door </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_13_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then Jesus went through the towns and villages, teaching as he made his way to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse lu_13_23"><sup>23</sup>Someone asked him, “Lord, are only a few people going to be saved?” <br/> He said to them, </span>
<span class="verse lu_13_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">“Make every effort to enter through the narrow door, because many, I tell you, will try to enter and will not be able to.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_25"><sup>25</sup><font color="red">Once the owner of the house gets up and closes the door, you will stand outside knocking and pleading, ‘Sir, open the door for us.’ </font><br/> <font color="red">“But he will answer, ‘I don’t know you or where you come from.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_26"> <sup>26</sup><font color="red">“Then you will say, ‘We ate and drank with you, and you taught in our streets.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_27"> <sup>27</sup><font color="red">“But he will reply, ‘I don’t know you or where you come from. Away from me, all you evildoers!’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_28"> <sup>28</sup><font color="red">“There will be weeping there, and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you yourselves thrown out.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_29"><sup>29</sup><font color="red">People will come from east and west and north and south, and will take their places at the feast in the kingdom of God.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_30"><sup>30</sup><font color="red">Indeed there are those who are last who will be first, and first who will be last.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus’ Sorrow for Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_13_31"> <sup>31</sup>At that time some Pharisees came to Jesus and said to him, “Leave this place and go somewhere else. Herod wants to kill you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_32"> <sup>32</sup>He replied, <font color="red">“Go tell that fox, ‘I will keep on driving out demons and healing people today and tomorrow, and on the third day I will reach my goal.’</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_33"><sup>33</sup><font color="red">In any case, I must press on today and tomorrow and the next day—for surely no prophet can die outside Jerusalem!</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_34"> <sup>34</sup><font color="red">“Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were not willing.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_13_35"><sup>35</sup><font color="red">Look, your house is left to you desolate. I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.’</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 118:26">⚓</a><font color="red">”</font><br/></span>
