---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>Jesus at a Pharisee’s House </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>One Sabbath, when Jesus went to eat in the house of a prominent Pharisee, he was being carefully watched. </span>
<span class="verse lu_14_2"><sup>2</sup>There in front of him was a man suffering from abnormal swelling of his body. </span>
<span class="verse lu_14_3"><sup>3</sup>Jesus asked the Pharisees and experts in the law, <font color="red">“Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not?”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_4"><sup>4</sup>But they remained silent. So taking hold of the man, he healed him and sent him on his way. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then he asked them, <font color="red">“If one of you has a child</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts donkey">⚓</a><font color="red">or an ox that falls into a well on the Sabbath day, will you not immediately pull it out?”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_6"><sup>6</sup>And they had nothing to say. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_7"> <sup>7</sup>When he noticed how the guests picked the places of honor at the table, he told them this parable: </span>
<span class="verse lu_14_8"><sup>8</sup><font color="red">“When someone invites you to a wedding feast, do not take the place of honor, for a person more distinguished than you may have been invited.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">If so, the host who invited both of you will come and say to you, ‘Give this person your seat.’ Then, humiliated, you will have to take the least important place.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">But when you are invited, take the lowest place, so that when your host comes, he will say to you, ‘Friend, move up to a better place.’ Then you will be honored in the presence of all the other guests.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_11"><sup>11</sup><font color="red">For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then Jesus said to his host, <font color="red">“When you give a luncheon or dinner, do not invite your friends, your brothers or sisters, your relatives, or your rich neighbors; if you do, they may invite you back and so you will be repaid.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">But when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind,</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_14"><sup>14</sup><font color="red">and you will be blessed. Although they cannot repay you, you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Parable of the Great Banquet </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_14_15"> <sup>15</sup>When one of those at the table with him heard this, he said to Jesus, “Blessed is the one who will eat at the feast in the kingdom of God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_16"> <sup>16</sup>Jesus replied: <font color="red">“A certain man was preparing a great banquet and invited many guests.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_17"><sup>17</sup><font color="red">At the time of the banquet he sent his servant to tell those who had been invited, ‘Come, for everything is now ready.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_18"> <sup>18</sup><font color="red">“But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said, ‘I have just bought a field, and I must go and see it. Please excuse me.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_19"> <sup>19</sup><font color="red">“Another said, ‘I have just bought five yoke of oxen, and I’m on my way to try them out. Please excuse me.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_20"> <sup>20</sup><font color="red">“Still another said, ‘I just got married, so I can’t come.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_21"> <sup>21</sup><font color="red">“The servant came back and reported this to his master. Then the owner of the house became angry and ordered his servant, ‘Go out quickly into the streets and alleys of the town and bring in the poor, the crippled, the blind and the lame.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_22"> <sup>22</sup><font color="red">“ ‘Sir,’ the servant said, ‘what you ordered has been done, but there is still room.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_23"> <sup>23</sup><font color="red">“Then the master told his servant, ‘Go out to the roads and country lanes and compel them to come in, so that my house will be full.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">I tell you, not one of those who were invited will get a taste of my banquet.’ ”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Cost of Being a Disciple </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_14_25"> <sup>25</sup>Large crowds were traveling with Jesus, and turning to them he said: </span>
<span class="verse lu_14_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">“If anyone comes to me and does not hate father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters—yes, even their own life—such a person cannot be my disciple.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_27"><sup>27</sup><font color="red">And whoever does not carry their cross and follow me cannot be my disciple.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_28"> <sup>28</sup><font color="red">“Suppose one of you wants to build a tower. Won’t you first sit down and estimate the cost to see if you have enough money to complete it?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_29"><sup>29</sup><font color="red">For if you lay the foundation and are not able to finish it, everyone who sees it will ridicule you,</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_30"><sup>30</sup><font color="red">saying, ‘This person began to build and wasn’t able to finish.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_31"> <sup>31</sup><font color="red">“Or suppose a king is about to go to war against another king. Won’t he first sit down and consider whether he is able with ten thousand men to oppose the one coming against him with twenty thousand?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_32"><sup>32</sup><font color="red">If he is not able, he will send a delegation while the other is still a long way off and will ask for terms of peace.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_33"><sup>33</sup><font color="red">In the same way, those of you who do not give up everything you have cannot be my disciples.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_34"> <sup>34</sup><font color="red">“Salt is good, but if it loses its saltiness, how can it be made salty again?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_14_35"><sup>35</sup><font color="red">It is fit neither for the soil nor for the manure pile; it is thrown out. </font><br/> <font color="red">“Whoever has ears to hear, let them hear.”</font><br/></span>
