---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>The Widow’s Offering </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>As Jesus looked up, he saw the rich putting their gifts into the temple treasury. </span>
<span class="verse lu_21_2"><sup>2</sup>He also saw a poor widow put in two very small copper coins. </span>
<span class="verse lu_21_3"><sup>3</sup><font color="red">“Truly I tell you,”</font> he said, <font color="red">“this poor widow has put in more than all the others.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_4"><sup>4</sup><font color="red">All these people gave their gifts out of their wealth; but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Destruction of the Temple and Signs of the End Times </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_21_5"> <sup>5</sup>Some of his disciples were remarking about how the temple was adorned with beautiful stones and with gifts dedicated to God. But Jesus said, </span>
<span class="verse lu_21_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">“As for what you see here, the time will come when not one stone will be left on another; every one of them will be thrown down.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Teacher,” they asked, “when will these things happen? And what will be the sign that they are about to take place?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_8"> <sup>8</sup>He replied: <font color="red">“Watch out that you are not deceived. For many will come in my name, claiming, ‘I am he,’ and, ‘The time is near.’ Do not follow them.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_9"><sup>9</sup><font color="red">When you hear of wars and uprisings, do not be frightened. These things must happen first, but the end will not come right away.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_10"> <sup>10</sup>Then he said to them: <font color="red">“Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_11"><sup>11</sup><font color="red">There will be great earthquakes, famines and pestilences in various places, and fearful events and great signs from heaven.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_12"> <sup>12</sup><font color="red">“But before all this, they will seize you and persecute you. They will hand you over to synagogues and put you in prison, and you will be brought before kings and governors, and all on account of my name.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_13"><sup>13</sup><font color="red">And so you will bear testimony to me.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_14"><sup>14</sup><font color="red">But make up your mind not to worry beforehand how you will defend yourselves.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_15"><sup>15</sup><font color="red">For I will give you words and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or contradict.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_16"><sup>16</sup><font color="red">You will be betrayed even by parents, brothers and sisters, relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_17"><sup>17</sup><font color="red">Everyone will hate you because of me.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_18"><sup>18</sup><font color="red">But not a hair of your head will perish.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_19"><sup>19</sup><font color="red">Stand firm, and you will win life.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_20"> <sup>20</sup><font color="red">“When you see Jerusalem being surrounded by armies, you will know that its desolation is near.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_21"><sup>21</sup><font color="red">Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, let those in the city get out, and let those in the country not enter the city.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_22"><sup>22</sup><font color="red">For this is the time of punishment in fulfillment of all that has been written.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_23"><sup>23</sup><font color="red">How dreadful it will be in those days for pregnant women and nursing mothers! There will be great distress in the land and wrath against this people.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_24"><sup>24</sup><font color="red">They will fall by the sword and will be taken as prisoners to all the nations. Jerusalem will be trampled on by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_25"> <sup>25</sup><font color="red">“There will be signs in the sun, moon and stars. On the earth, nations will be in anguish and perplexity at the roaring and tossing of the sea.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">People will faint from terror, apprehensive of what is coming on the world, for the heavenly bodies will be shaken.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_27"><sup>27</sup><font color="red">At that time they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_28"><sup>28</sup><font color="red">When these things begin to take place, stand up and lift up your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_29"> <sup>29</sup>He told them this parable: <font color="red">“Look at the fig tree and all the trees.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_30"><sup>30</sup><font color="red">When they sprout leaves, you can see for yourselves and know that summer is near.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_31"><sup>31</sup><font color="red">Even so, when you see these things happening, you know that the kingdom of God is near.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_32"> <sup>32</sup><font color="red">“Truly I tell you, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_33"><sup>33</sup><font color="red">Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away.</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_34"> <sup>34</sup><font color="red">“Be careful, or your hearts will be weighed down with carousing, drunkenness and the anxieties of life, and that day will close on you suddenly like a trap.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_35"><sup>35</sup><font color="red">For it will come on all those who live on the face of the whole earth.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_36"><sup>36</sup><font color="red">Be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to escape all that is about to happen, and that you may be able to stand before the Son of Man.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_21_37"> <sup>37</sup>Each day Jesus was teaching at the temple, and each evening he went out to spend the night on the hill called the Mount of Olives, </span>
<span class="verse lu_21_38"><sup>38</sup>and all the people came early in the morning to hear him at the temple. <br/></span>
