---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1></div>
<span class="verse lu_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then the whole assembly rose and led him off to Pilate. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_2"><sup>2</sup>And they began to accuse him, saying, “We have found this man subverting our nation. He opposes payment of taxes to Caesar and claims to be Messiah, a king.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_3"> <sup>3</sup>So Pilate asked Jesus, “Are you the king of the Jews?” <br/> <font color="red">“You have said so,”</font> Jesus replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_4"> <sup>4</sup>Then Pilate announced to the chief priests and the crowd, “I find no basis for a charge against this man.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_5"> <sup>5</sup>But they insisted, “He stirs up the people all over Judea by his teaching. He started in Galilee and has come all the way here.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_6"> <sup>6</sup>On hearing this, Pilate asked if the man was a Galilean. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_7"><sup>7</sup>When he learned that Jesus was under Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_8"> <sup>8</sup>When Herod saw Jesus, he was greatly pleased, because for a long time he had been wanting to see him. From what he had heard about him, he hoped to see him perform a sign of some sort. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_9"><sup>9</sup>He plied him with many questions, but Jesus gave him no answer. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_10"><sup>10</sup>The chief priests and the teachers of the law were standing there, vehemently accusing him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_11"><sup>11</sup>Then Herod and his soldiers ridiculed and mocked him. Dressing him in an elegant robe, they sent him back to Pilate. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_12"><sup>12</sup>That day Herod and Pilate became friends—before this they had been enemies. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_13"> <sup>13</sup>Pilate called together the chief priests, the rulers and the people, </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_14"><sup>14</sup>and said to them, “You brought me this man as one who was inciting the people to rebellion. I have examined him in your presence and have found no basis for your charges against him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_15"><sup>15</sup>Neither has Herod, for he sent him back to us; as you can see, he has done nothing to deserve death. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_16"><sup>16</sup>Therefore, I will punish him and then release him.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_17"><sup>[17]</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts include here words similar to Matt. 27:15 and Mark 15:6.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_18"> <sup>18</sup>But the whole crowd shouted, “Away with this man! Release Barabbas to us!” </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_19"><sup>19</sup>(Barabbas had been thrown into prison for an insurrection in the city, and for murder.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_20"> <sup>20</sup>Wanting to release Jesus, Pilate appealed to them again. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_21"><sup>21</sup>But they kept shouting, “Crucify him! Crucify him!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_22"> <sup>22</sup>For the third time he spoke to them: “Why? What crime has this man committed? I have found in him no grounds for the death penalty. Therefore I will have him punished and then release him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_23"> <sup>23</sup>But with loud shouts they insistently demanded that he be crucified, and their shouts prevailed. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_24"><sup>24</sup>So Pilate decided to grant their demand. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_25"><sup>25</sup>He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, the one they asked for, and surrendered Jesus to their will. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Crucifixion of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_23_26"> <sup>26</sup>As the soldiers led him away, they seized Simon from Cyrene, who was on his way in from the country, and put the cross on him and made him carry it behind Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_27"><sup>27</sup>A large number of people followed him, including women who mourned and wailed for him. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_28"><sup>28</sup>Jesus turned and said to them, <font color="red">“Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; weep for yourselves and for your children.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_29"><sup>29</sup><font color="red">For the time will come when you will say, ‘Blessed are the childless women, the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!’</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_30"><sup>30</sup><font color="red">Then </font><br/>  <font color="red">“ ‘they will say to the mountains, “Fall on us!” </font><br/>   <font color="red">and to the hills, “Cover us!” ’</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title=" 23:30 Hosea 10:8 ">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_31"><sup>31</sup><font color="red">For if people do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_32"> <sup>32</sup>Two other men, both criminals, were also led out with him to be executed. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_33"><sup>33</sup>When they came to the place called the Skull, they crucified him there, along with the criminals—one on his right, the other on his left. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_34"><sup>34</sup>Jesus said, <font color="red">“Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing.”</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some early manuscripts do not have this sentence.">⚓</a> And they divided up his clothes by casting lots. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_35"> <sup>35</sup>The people stood watching, and the rulers even sneered at him. They said, “He saved others; let him save himself if he is God’s Messiah, the Chosen One.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_36"> <sup>36</sup>The soldiers also came up and mocked him. They offered him wine vinegar </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_37"><sup>37</sup>and said, “If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_38"> <sup>38</sup>There was a written notice above him, which read: this is the king of the jews. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_39"> <sup>39</sup>One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him: “Aren’t you the Messiah? Save yourself and us!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_40"> <sup>40</sup>But the other criminal rebuked him. “Don’t you fear God,” he said, “since you are under the same sentence? </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_41"><sup>41</sup>We are punished justly, for we are getting what our deeds deserve. But this man has done nothing wrong.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_42"> <sup>42</sup>Then he said, “Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts come with your kingly power">⚓</a> ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_43"> <sup>43</sup>Jesus answered him, <font color="red">“Truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Death of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_23_44"> <sup>44</sup>It was now about noon, and darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon, </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_45"><sup>45</sup>for the sun stopped shining. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_46"><sup>46</sup>Jesus called out with a loud voice, <font color="red">“Father, into your hands I commit my spirit.”</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 31:5">⚓</a> When he had said this, he breathed his last. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_47"> <sup>47</sup>The centurion, seeing what had happened, praised God and said, “Surely this was a righteous man.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_48"><sup>48</sup>When all the people who had gathered to witness this sight saw what took place, they beat their breasts and went away. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_49"><sup>49</sup>But all those who knew him, including the women who had followed him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Burial of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_23_50"> <sup>50</sup>Now there was a man named Joseph, a member of the Council, a good and upright man, </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_51"><sup>51</sup>who had not consented to their decision and action. He came from the Judean town of Arimathea, and he himself was waiting for the kingdom of God. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_52"><sup>52</sup>Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus’ body. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_53"><sup>53</sup>Then he took it down, wrapped it in linen cloth and placed it in a tomb cut in the rock, one in which no one had yet been laid. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_54"><sup>54</sup>It was Preparation Day, and the Sabbath was about to begin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_23_55"> <sup>55</sup>The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph and saw the tomb and how his body was laid in it. </span>
<span class="verse lu_23_56"><sup>56</sup>Then they went home and prepared spices and perfumes. But they rested on the Sabbath in obedience to the commandment. <br/></span>
