---
translation: NIV
group: GOSPELS
bookName: Luke 
bookNumber: 42
audio: \Audio\NIV\lu\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>Jesus Has Risen </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, the women took the spices they had prepared and went to the tomb. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_2"><sup>2</sup>They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_3"><sup>3</sup>but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_4"><sup>4</sup>While they were wondering about this, suddenly two men in clothes that gleamed like lightning stood beside them. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_5"><sup>5</sup>In their fright the women bowed down with their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, “Why do you look for the living among the dead? </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_6"><sup>6</sup>He is not here; he has risen! Remember how he told you, while he was still with you in Galilee: </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_7"><sup>7</sup><font color="red">‘The Son of Man must be delivered over to the hands of sinners, be crucified and on the third day be raised again.’</font> ” </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_8"><sup>8</sup>Then they remembered his words. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_9"> <sup>9</sup>When they came back from the tomb, they told all these things to the Eleven and to all the others. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_10"><sup>10</sup>It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the others with them who told this to the apostles. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_11"><sup>11</sup>But they did not believe the women, because their words seemed to them like nonsense. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_12"><sup>12</sup>Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. Bending over, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he went away, wondering to himself what had happened. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>On the Road to Emmaus </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_24_13"> <sup>13</sup>Now that same day two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 11 kilometers">⚓</a> from Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_14"><sup>14</sup>They were talking with each other about everything that had happened. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_15"><sup>15</sup>As they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them; </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_16"><sup>16</sup>but they were kept from recognizing him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_17"> <sup>17</sup>He asked them, <font color="red">“What are you discussing together as you walk along?”</font><br/> They stood still, their faces downcast. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_18"><sup>18</sup>One of them, named Cleopas, asked him, “Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_19"> <sup>19</sup><font color="red">“What things?”</font> he asked. <br/> “About Jesus of Nazareth,” they replied. “He was a prophet, powerful in word and deed before God and all the people. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_20"><sup>20</sup>The chief priests and our rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, and they crucified him; </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_21"><sup>21</sup>but we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. And what is more, it is the third day since all this took place. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_22"><sup>22</sup>In addition, some of our women amazed us. They went to the tomb early this morning </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_23"><sup>23</sup>but didn’t find his body. They came and told us that they had seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_24"><sup>24</sup>Then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but they did not see Jesus.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_25"> <sup>25</sup>He said to them, <font color="red">“How foolish you are, and how slow to believe all that the prophets have spoken!</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_26"><sup>26</sup><font color="red">Did not the Messiah have to suffer these things and then enter his glory?”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_27"><sup>27</sup>And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the Scriptures concerning himself. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_28"> <sup>28</sup>As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus continued on as if he were going farther. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_29"><sup>29</sup>But they urged him strongly, “Stay with us, for it is nearly evening; the day is almost over.” So he went in to stay with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_30"> <sup>30</sup>When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, broke it and began to give it to them. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_31"><sup>31</sup>Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him, and he disappeared from their sight. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_32"><sup>32</sup>They asked each other, “Were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the Scriptures to us?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_33"> <sup>33</sup>They got up and returned at once to Jerusalem. There they found the Eleven and those with them, assembled together </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_34"><sup>34</sup>and saying, “It is true! The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon.” </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_35"><sup>35</sup>Then the two told what had happened on the way, and how Jesus was recognized by them when he broke the bread. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jesus Appears to the Disciples </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_24_36"> <sup>36</sup>While they were still talking about this, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, <font color="red">“Peace be with you.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_37"> <sup>37</sup>They were startled and frightened, thinking they saw a ghost. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_38"><sup>38</sup>He said to them, <font color="red">“Why are you troubled, and why do doubts rise in your minds?</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_39"><sup>39</sup><font color="red">Look at my hands and my feet. It is I myself! Touch me and see; a ghost does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_40"> <sup>40</sup>When he had said this, he showed them his hands and feet. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_41"><sup>41</sup>And while they still did not believe it because of joy and amazement, he asked them, <font color="red">“Do you have anything here to eat?”</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_42"><sup>42</sup>They gave him a piece of broiled fish, </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_43"><sup>43</sup>and he took it and ate it in their presence. <br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_44"> <sup>44</sup>He said to them, <font color="red">“This is what I told you while I was still with you: Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_45"> <sup>45</sup>Then he opened their minds so they could understand the Scriptures. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_46"><sup>46</sup>He told them, <font color="red">“This is what is written: The Messiah will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day,</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_47"><sup>47</sup><font color="red">and repentance for the forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_48"><sup>48</sup><font color="red">You are witnesses of these things.</font></span>
<span class="verse lu_24_49"><sup>49</sup><font color="red">I am going to send you what my Father has promised; but stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high.”</font><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Ascension of Jesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse lu_24_50"> <sup>50</sup>When he had led them out to the vicinity of Bethany, he lifted up his hands and blessed them. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_51"><sup>51</sup>While he was blessing them, he left them and was taken up into heaven. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_52"><sup>52</sup>Then they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. </span>
<span class="verse lu_24_53"><sup>53</sup>And they stayed continually at the temple, praising God. <br/></span>
