---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Job 
bookNumber: 18
audio: \Audio\NIV\giop\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Prologue </h3></div>
<span class="verse giop_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the land of Uz there lived a man whose name was Job. This man was blameless and upright; he feared God and shunned evil. </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_2"><sup>2</sup>He had seven sons and three daughters, </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_3"><sup>3</sup>and he owned seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen and five hundred donkeys, and had a large number of servants. He was the greatest man among all the people of the East. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_4"> <sup>4</sup>His sons used to hold feasts in their homes on their birthdays, and they would invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them. </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_5"><sup>5</sup>When a period of feasting had run its course, Job would make arrangements for them to be purified. Early in the morning he would sacrifice a burnt offering for each of them, thinking, “Perhaps my children have sinned and cursed God in their hearts.” This was Job’s regular custom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>One day the angels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew the sons of God">⚓</a> came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew satan means adversary.">⚓</a> also came with them. </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_7"><sup>7</sup>The Lord said to Satan, “Where have you come from?” <br/> Satan answered the Lord, “From roaming throughout the earth, going back and forth on it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then the Lord said to Satan, “Have you considered my servant Job? There is no one on earth like him; he is blameless and upright, a man who fears God and shuns evil.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>“Does Job fear God for nothing?” Satan replied. </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_10"><sup>10</sup>“Have you not put a hedge around him and his household and everything he has? You have blessed the work of his hands, so that his flocks and herds are spread throughout the land. </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_11"><sup>11</sup>But now stretch out your hand and strike everything he has, and he will surely curse you to your face.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>The Lord said to Satan, “Very well, then, everything he has is in your power, but on the man himself do not lay a finger.” <br/> Then Satan went out from the presence of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>One day when Job’s sons and daughters were feasting and drinking wine at the oldest brother’s house, </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_14"><sup>14</sup>a messenger came to Job and said, “The oxen were plowing and the donkeys were grazing nearby, </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_15"><sup>15</sup>and the Sabeans attacked and made off with them. They put the servants to the sword, and I am the only one who has escaped to tell you!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>While he was still speaking, another messenger came and said, “The fire of God fell from the heavens and burned up the sheep and the servants, and I am the only one who has escaped to tell you!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_17"> <sup>17</sup>While he was still speaking, another messenger came and said, “The Chaldeans formed three raiding parties and swept down on your camels and made off with them. They put the servants to the sword, and I am the only one who has escaped to tell you!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>While he was still speaking, yet another messenger came and said, “Your sons and daughters were feasting and drinking wine at the oldest brother’s house, </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_19"><sup>19</sup>when suddenly a mighty wind swept in from the desert and struck the four corners of the house. It collapsed on them and they are dead, and I am the only one who has escaped to tell you!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_20"> <sup>20</sup>At this, Job got up and tore his robe and shaved his head. Then he fell to the ground in worship </span>
<span class="verse giop_1_21"><sup>21</sup>and said: <br/>  “Naked I came from my mother’s womb, <br/>   and naked I will depart.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or will return there">⚓</a><br/>  The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away; <br/>   may the name of the Lord be praised.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_1_22"> <sup>22</sup>In all this, Job did not sin by charging God with wrongdoing. <br/></span>
