---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Job 
bookNumber: 18
audio: \Audio\NIV\giop\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1></div>
<span class="verse giop_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>On another day the angels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew the sons of God">⚓</a> came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came with them to present himself before him. </span>
<span class="verse giop_2_2"><sup>2</sup>And the Lord said to Satan, “Where have you come from?” <br/> Satan answered the Lord, “From roaming throughout the earth, going back and forth on it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_2_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then the Lord said to Satan, “Have you considered my servant Job? There is no one on earth like him; he is blameless and upright, a man who fears God and shuns evil. And he still maintains his integrity, though you incited me against him to ruin him without any reason.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>“Skin for skin!” Satan replied. “A man will give all he has for his own life. </span>
<span class="verse giop_2_5"><sup>5</sup>But now stretch out your hand and strike his flesh and bones, and he will surely curse you to your face.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>The Lord said to Satan, “Very well, then, he is in your hands; but you must spare his life.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord and afflicted Job with painful sores from the soles of his feet to the crown of his head. </span>
<span class="verse giop_2_8"><sup>8</sup>Then Job took a piece of broken pottery and scraped himself with it as he sat among the ashes. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_2_9"> <sup>9</sup>His wife said to him, “Are you still maintaining your integrity? Curse God and die!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_2_10"> <sup>10</sup>He replied, “You are talking like a foolish<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew word rendered foolish denotes moral deficiency.">⚓</a> woman. Shall we accept good from God, and not trouble?” <br/> In all this, Job did not sin in what he said. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>When Job’s three friends, Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite, heard about all the troubles that had come upon him, they set out from their homes and met together by agreement to go and sympathize with him and comfort him. </span>
<span class="verse giop_2_12"><sup>12</sup>When they saw him from a distance, they could hardly recognize him; they began to weep aloud, and they tore their robes and sprinkled dust on their heads. </span>
<span class="verse giop_2_13"><sup>13</sup>Then they sat on the ground with him for seven days and seven nights. No one said a word to him, because they saw how great his suffering was. <br/></span>
