---
translation: NIV
group: POETRY & WINSDOM
bookName: Job 
bookNumber: 18
audio: \Audio\NIV\giop\42.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>42</h1><h3>Job </h3></div>
<span class="verse giop_42_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Job replied to the Lord: <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_42_2">  <sup>2</sup>“I know that you can do all things; <br/>   no purpose of yours can be thwarted. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_42_3">  <sup>3</sup>You asked, ‘Who is this that obscures my plans without knowledge?’ <br/>   Surely I spoke of things I did not understand, <br/>   things too wonderful for me to know. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_42_4">  <sup>4</sup>“You said, ‘Listen now, and I will speak; <br/>   I will question you, <br/>   and you shall answer me.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_42_5">  <sup>5</sup>My ears had heard of you <br/>   but now my eyes have seen you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_42_6">  <sup>6</sup>Therefore I despise myself <br/>   and repent in dust and ashes.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Epilogue </h3></div>
<span class="verse giop_42_7"> <sup>7</sup>After the Lord had said these things to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Temanite, “I am angry with you and your two friends, because you have not spoken the truth about me, as my servant Job has. </span>
<span class="verse giop_42_8"><sup>8</sup>So now take seven bulls and seven rams and go to my servant Job and sacrifice a burnt offering for yourselves. My servant Job will pray for you, and I will accept his prayer and not deal with you according to your folly. You have not spoken the truth about me, as my servant Job has.” </span>
<span class="verse giop_42_9"><sup>9</sup>So Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite did what the Lord told them; and the Lord accepted Job’s prayer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_42_10"> <sup>10</sup>After Job had prayed for his friends, the Lord restored his fortunes and gave him twice as much as he had before. </span>
<span class="verse giop_42_11"><sup>11</sup>All his brothers and sisters and everyone who had known him before came and ate with him in his house. They comforted and consoled him over all the trouble the Lord had brought on him, and each one gave him a piece of silver<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew him a kesitah ; a kesitah was a unit of money of unknown weight and value.">⚓</a> and a gold ring. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_42_12"> <sup>12</sup>The Lord blessed the latter part of Job’s life more than the former part. He had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, a thousand yoke of oxen and a thousand donkeys. </span>
<span class="verse giop_42_13"><sup>13</sup>And he also had seven sons and three daughters. </span>
<span class="verse giop_42_14"><sup>14</sup>The first daughter he named Jemimah, the second Keziah and the third Keren-Happuch. </span>
<span class="verse giop_42_15"><sup>15</sup>Nowhere in all the land were there found women as beautiful as Job’s daughters, and their father granted them an inheritance along with their brothers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse giop_42_16"> <sup>16</sup>After this, Job lived a hundred and forty years; he saw his children and their children to the fourth generation. </span>
<span class="verse giop_42_17"><sup>17</sup>And so Job died, an old man and full of years. <br/></span>
