---
translation: NIV
group: MINOR PROPHETS
bookName: Obadiah 
bookNumber: 31
audio: \Audio\NIV\ap\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Obadiah’s Vision </h3></div>
<span class="verse ap_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The vision of Obadiah. <br/> This is what the Sovereign Lord says about Edom— <br/>  We have heard a message from the Lord: <br/>   An envoy was sent to the nations to say, <br/>  “Rise, let us go against her for battle”— <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_2">  <sup>2</sup>“See, I will make you small among the nations; <br/>   you will be utterly despised. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_3">  <sup>3</sup>The pride of your heart has deceived you, <br/>   you who live in the clefts of the rocks<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or of Sela">⚓</a><br/>   and make your home on the heights, <br/>  you who say to yourself, <br/>   ‘Who can bring me down to the ground?’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_4">  <sup>4</sup>Though you soar like the eagle <br/>   and make your nest among the stars, <br/>   from there I will bring you down,” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">declares the Lord. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_5">  <sup>5</sup>“If thieves came to you, <br/>   if robbers in the night— <br/>  oh, what a disaster awaits you!— <br/>   would they not steal only as much as they wanted? <br/>  If grape pickers came to you, <br/>   would they not leave a few grapes? <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_6">  <sup>6</sup>But how Esau will be ransacked, <br/>   his hidden treasures pillaged! <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_7">  <sup>7</sup>All your allies will force you to the border; <br/>   your friends will deceive and overpower you; <br/>  those who eat your bread will set a trap for you,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this clause is uncertain.">⚓</a><br/>   but you will not detect it. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_8">  <sup>8</sup>“In that day,” declares the Lord, <br/>   “will I not destroy the wise men of Edom, <br/>   those of understanding in the mountains of Esau? <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_9">  <sup>9</sup>Your warriors, Teman, will be terrified, <br/>   and everyone in Esau’s mountains <br/>   will be cut down in the slaughter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_10">  <sup>10</sup>Because of the violence against your brother Jacob, <br/>   you will be covered with shame; <br/>   you will be destroyed forever. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_11">  <sup>11</sup>On the day you stood aloof <br/>   while strangers carried off his wealth <br/>  and foreigners entered his gates <br/>   and cast lots for Jerusalem, <br/>   you were like one of them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_12">  <sup>12</sup>You should not gloat over your brother <br/>   in the day of his misfortune, <br/>  nor rejoice over the people of Judah <br/>   in the day of their destruction, <br/>  nor boast so much <br/>   in the day of their trouble. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_13">  <sup>13</sup>You should not march through the gates of my people <br/>   in the day of their disaster, <br/>  nor gloat over them in their calamity <br/>   in the day of their disaster, <br/>  nor seize their wealth <br/>   in the day of their disaster. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_14">  <sup>14</sup>You should not wait at the crossroads <br/>   to cut down their fugitives, <br/>  nor hand over their survivors <br/>   in the day of their trouble. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_15">  <sup>15</sup>“The day of the Lord is near <br/>   for all nations. <br/>  As you have done, it will be done to you; <br/>   your deeds will return upon your own head. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_16">  <sup>16</sup>Just as you drank on my holy hill, <br/>   so all the nations will drink continually; <br/>  they will drink and drink <br/>   and be as if they had never been. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_17">  <sup>17</sup>But on Mount Zion will be deliverance; <br/>   it will be holy, <br/>   and Jacob will possess his inheritance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_18">  <sup>18</sup>Jacob will be a fire <br/>   and Joseph a flame; <br/>  Esau will be stubble, <br/>   and they will set him on fire and destroy him. <br/>  There will be no survivors <br/>   from Esau.” <br/> <aside style="text-align:right;">The Lord has spoken. </aside><br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_19">  <sup>19</sup>People from the Negev will occupy <br/>   the mountains of Esau, <br/>  and people from the foothills will possess <br/>   the land of the Philistines. <br/>  They will occupy the fields of Ephraim and Samaria, <br/>   and Benjamin will possess Gilead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_20">  <sup>20</sup>This company of Israelite exiles who are in Canaan <br/>   will possess the land as far as Zarephath; <br/>  the exiles from Jerusalem who are in Sepharad <br/>   will possess the towns of the Negev. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ap_1_21">  <sup>21</sup>Deliverers will go up on<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or from">⚓</a> Mount Zion <br/>   to govern the mountains of Esau. <br/>   And the kingdom will be the Lord’s. <br/></span>
