---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: I John 
bookNumber: 62
audio: \Audio\NIV\1gi\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anybody does sin, we have an advocate with the Father—Jesus Christ, the Righteous One. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_2"><sup>2</sup>He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours but also for the sins of the whole world. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Love and Hatred for Fellow Believers </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_3"> <sup>3</sup>We know that we have come to know him if we keep his commands. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_4"><sup>4</sup>Whoever says, “I know him,” but does not do what he commands is a liar, and the truth is not in that person. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_5"><sup>5</sup>But if anyone obeys his word, love for God<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or word, God’s love">⚓</a> is truly made complete in them. This is how we know we are in him: </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_6"><sup>6</sup>Whoever claims to live in him must live as Jesus did. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>Dear friends, I am not writing you a new command but an old one, which you have had since the beginning. This old command is the message you have heard. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_8"><sup>8</sup>Yet I am writing you a new command; its truth is seen in him and in you, because the darkness is passing and the true light is already shining. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_9"> <sup>9</sup>Anyone who claims to be in the light but hates a brother or sister<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brother or sister (adelphos ) refers here to a believer, whether man or woman, as part of God’s family; also in verse 11; and in 3:15, 17; 4:20; 5:16.">⚓</a> is still in the darkness. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_10"><sup>10</sup>Anyone who loves their brother and sister<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brother and sister (adelphos ) refers here to a believer, whether man or woman, as part of God’s family; also in 3:10; 4:20, 21.">⚓</a> lives in the light, and there is nothing in them to make them stumble. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_11"><sup>11</sup>But anyone who hates a brother or sister is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness. They do not know where they are going, because the darkness has blinded them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Reasons for Writing </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_12">  <sup>12</sup>I am writing to you, dear children, <br/>   because your sins have been forgiven on account of his name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_13">  <sup>13</sup>I am writing to you, fathers, <br/>   because you know him who is from the beginning. <br/>  I am writing to you, young men, <br/>   because you have overcome the evil one. <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_14">  <sup>14</sup>I write to you, dear children, <br/>   because you know the Father. <br/>  I write to you, fathers, <br/>   because you know him who is from the beginning. <br/>  I write to you, young men, <br/>   because you are strong, <br/>   and the word of God lives in you, <br/>   and you have overcome the evil one. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>On Not Loving the World </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>Do not love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world, love for the Father<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or world, the Father’s love">⚓</a> is not in them. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_16"><sup>16</sup>For everything in the world—the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life—comes not from the Father but from the world. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_17"><sup>17</sup>The world and its desires pass away, but whoever does the will of God lives forever. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Warnings Against Denying the Son </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_18"> <sup>18</sup>Dear children, this is the last hour; and as you have heard that the antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come. This is how we know it is the last hour. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_19"><sup>19</sup>They went out from us, but they did not really belong to us. For if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us; but their going showed that none of them belonged to us. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_20"> <sup>20</sup>But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know the truth.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts and you know all things">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_21"><sup>21</sup>I do not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it and because no lie comes from the truth. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_22"><sup>22</sup>Who is the liar? It is whoever denies that Jesus is the Christ. Such a person is the antichrist—denying the Father and the Son. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_23"><sup>23</sup>No one who denies the Son has the Father; whoever acknowledges the Son has the Father also. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_24"> <sup>24</sup>As for you, see that what you have heard from the beginning remains in you. If it does, you also will remain in the Son and in the Father. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_25"><sup>25</sup>And this is what he promised us—eternal life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_26"> <sup>26</sup>I am writing these things to you about those who are trying to lead you astray. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_27"><sup>27</sup>As for you, the anointing you received from him remains in you, and you do not need anyone to teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about all things and as that anointing is real, not counterfeit—just as it has taught you, remain in him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Children and Sin </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_28"> <sup>28</sup>And now, dear children, continue in him, so that when he appears we may be confident and unashamed before him at his coming. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_2_29"> <sup>29</sup>If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who does what is right has been born of him. <br/></span>
