---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: I John 
bookNumber: 62
audio: \Audio\NIV\1gi\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>See what great love the Father has lavished on us, that we should be called children of God! And that is what we are! The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_2"><sup>2</sup>Dear friends, now we are children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when Christ appears,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or when it is made known">⚓</a> we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_3"><sup>3</sup>All who have this hope in him purify themselves, just as he is pure. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_4"> <sup>4</sup>Everyone who sins breaks the law; in fact, sin is lawlessness. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_5"><sup>5</sup>But you know that he appeared so that he might take away our sins. And in him is no sin. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_6"><sup>6</sup>No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>Dear children, do not let anyone lead you astray. The one who does what is right is righteous, just as he is righteous. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_8"><sup>8</sup>The one who does what is sinful is of the devil, because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the devil’s work. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_9"><sup>9</sup>No one who is born of God will continue to sin, because God’s seed remains in them; they cannot go on sinning, because they have been born of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_10"><sup>10</sup>This is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are: Anyone who does not do what is right is not God’s child, nor is anyone who does not love their brother and sister. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>More on Love and Hatred </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>For this is the message you heard from the beginning: We should love one another. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_12"><sup>12</sup>Do not be like Cain, who belonged to the evil one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own actions were evil and his brother’s were righteous. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_13"><sup>13</sup>Do not be surprised, my brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in verse 16.">⚓</a> if the world hates you. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_14"><sup>14</sup>We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love each other. Anyone who does not love remains in death. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_15"><sup>15</sup>Anyone who hates a brother or sister is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life residing in him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_16"> <sup>16</sup>This is how we know what love is: Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_17"><sup>17</sup>If anyone has material possessions and sees a brother or sister in need but has no pity on them, how can the love of God be in that person? </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_18"><sup>18</sup>Dear children, let us not love with words or speech but with actions and in truth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_19"> <sup>19</sup>This is how we know that we belong to the truth and how we set our hearts at rest in his presence: </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_20"><sup>20</sup>If our hearts condemn us, we know that God is greater than our hearts, and he knows everything. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_21"><sup>21</sup>Dear friends, if our hearts do not condemn us, we have confidence before God </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_22"><sup>22</sup>and receive from him anything we ask, because we keep his commands and do what pleases him. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_23"><sup>23</sup>And this is his command: to believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and to love one another as he commanded us. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_3_24"><sup>24</sup>The one who keeps God’s commands lives in him, and he in them. And this is how we know that he lives in us: We know it by the Spirit he gave us. <br/></span>
