---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: I John 
bookNumber: 62
audio: \Audio\NIV\1gi\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>On Denying the Incarnation </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Dear friends, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_2"><sup>2</sup>This is how you can recognize the Spirit of God: Every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_3"><sup>3</sup>but every spirit that does not acknowledge Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, which you have heard is coming and even now is already in the world. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>You, dear children, are from God and have overcome them, because the one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_5"><sup>5</sup>They are from the world and therefore speak from the viewpoint of the world, and the world listens to them. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_6"><sup>6</sup>We are from God, and whoever knows God listens to us; but whoever is not from God does not listen to us. This is how we recognize the Spirit<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or spirit">⚓</a> of truth and the spirit of falsehood. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Love and Ours </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_7"> <sup>7</sup>Dear friends, let us love one another, for love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_8"><sup>8</sup>Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_9"><sup>9</sup>This is how God showed his love among us: He sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_10"><sup>10</sup>This is love: not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_11"><sup>11</sup>Dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_12"><sup>12</sup>No one has ever seen God; but if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete in us. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>This is how we know that we live in him and he in us: He has given us of his Spirit. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_14"><sup>14</sup>And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_15"><sup>15</sup>If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them and they in God. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_16"><sup>16</sup>And so we know and rely on the love God has for us. <br/> God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in them. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_17"><sup>17</sup>This is how love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence on the day of judgment: In this world we are like Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_18"><sup>18</sup>There is no fear in love. But perfect love drives out fear, because fear has to do with punishment. The one who fears is not made perfect in love. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_19"> <sup>19</sup>We love because he first loved us. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_20"><sup>20</sup>Whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen, cannot love God, whom they have not seen. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_4_21"><sup>21</sup>And he has given us this command: Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister. <br/></span>
