---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: I John 
bookNumber: 62
audio: \Audio\NIV\1gi\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Faith in the Incarnate Son of God </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone who loves the father loves his child as well. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_2"><sup>2</sup>This is how we know that we love the children of God: by loving God and carrying out his commands. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_3"><sup>3</sup>In fact, this is love for God: to keep his commands. And his commands are not burdensome, </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_4"><sup>4</sup>for everyone born of God overcomes the world. This is the victory that has overcome the world, even our faith. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_5"><sup>5</sup>Who is it that overcomes the world? Only the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>This is the one who came by water and blood—Jesus Christ. He did not come by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_7"><sup>7</sup>For there are three that testify: </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_8"><sup>8</sup>the<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Late manuscripts of the Vulgate testify in heaven: the Father, the Word and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one. 8And there are three that testify on earth: the (not found in any Greek manuscript before the fourteenth century)">⚓</a> Spirit, the water and the blood; and the three are in agreement. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_9"><sup>9</sup>We accept human testimony, but God’s testimony is greater because it is the testimony of God, which he has given about his Son. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_10"><sup>10</sup>Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts this testimony. Whoever does not believe God has made him out to be a liar, because they have not believed the testimony God has given about his Son. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_11"><sup>11</sup>And this is the testimony: God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_12"><sup>12</sup>Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Concluding Affirmations </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God so that you may know that you have eternal life. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_14"><sup>14</sup>This is the confidence we have in approaching God: that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_15"><sup>15</sup>And if we know that he hears us—whatever we ask—we know that we have what we asked of him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_16"> <sup>16</sup>If you see any brother or sister commit a sin that does not lead to death, you should pray and God will give them life. I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I am not saying that you should pray about that. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_17"><sup>17</sup>All wrongdoing is sin, and there is sin that does not lead to death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_18"> <sup>18</sup>We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin; the One who was born of God keeps them safe, and the evil one cannot harm them. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_19"><sup>19</sup>We know that we are children of God, and that the whole world is under the control of the evil one. </span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_20"><sup>20</sup>We know also that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true by being in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1gi_5_21"> <sup>21</sup>Dear children, keep yourselves from idols. <br/></span>
