---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Reuben </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel (he was the firstborn, but when he defiled his father’s marriage bed, his rights as firstborn were given to the sons of Joseph son of Israel; so he could not be listed in the genealogical record in accordance with his birthright, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_2"><sup>2</sup>and though Judah was the strongest of his brothers and a ruler came from him, the rights of the firstborn belonged to Joseph)— </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_3"><sup>3</sup>the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: <br/>  Hanok, Pallu, Hezron and Karmi. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_4">  <sup>4</sup>The descendants of Joel: <br/>    Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, <br/>    Shimei his son, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_5"><sup>5</sup>Micah his son, <br/>    Reaiah his son, Baal his son, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_6">    <sup>6</sup>and Beerah his son, whom Tiglath-Pileser<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Tilgath-Pilneser, a variant of Tiglath-Pileser ; also in verse 26">⚓</a> king of Assyria took into exile. Beerah was a leader of the Reubenites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_7">  <sup>7</sup>Their relatives by clans, listed according to their genealogical records: <br/>    Jeiel the chief, Zechariah, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_8"><sup>8</sup>and Bela son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel. They settled in the area from Aroer to Nebo and Baal Meon. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_9"><sup>9</sup>To the east they occupied the land up to the edge of the desert that extends to the Euphrates River, because their livestock had increased in Gilead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_10"> <sup>10</sup>During Saul’s reign they waged war against the Hagrites, who were defeated at their hands; they occupied the dwellings of the Hagrites throughout the entire region east of Gilead. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Gad </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_5_11">  <sup>11</sup>The Gadites lived next to them in Bashan, as far as Salekah: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_12">    <sup>12</sup>Joel was the chief, Shapham the second, then Janai and Shaphat, in Bashan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_13">  <sup>13</sup>Their relatives, by families, were: <br/>    Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jakan, Zia and Eber—seven in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_14">    <sup>14</sup>These were the sons of Abihail son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_15">    <sup>15</sup>Ahi son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, was head of their family. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_16">  <sup>16</sup>The Gadites lived in Gilead, in Bashan and its outlying villages, and on all the pasturelands of Sharon as far as they extended. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_17"> <sup>17</sup>All these were entered in the genealogical records during the reigns of Jotham king of Judah and Jeroboam king of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_18"> <sup>18</sup>The Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh had 44,760 men ready for military service—able-bodied men who could handle shield and sword, who could use a bow, and who were trained for battle. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_19"><sup>19</sup>They waged war against the Hagrites, Jetur, Naphish and Nodab. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_20"><sup>20</sup>They were helped in fighting them, and God delivered the Hagrites and all their allies into their hands, because they cried out to him during the battle. He answered their prayers, because they trusted in him. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_21"><sup>21</sup>They seized the livestock of the Hagrites—fifty thousand camels, two hundred fifty thousand sheep and two thousand donkeys. They also took one hundred thousand people captive, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_22"><sup>22</sup>and many others fell slain, because the battle was God’s. And they occupied the land until the exile. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Half-Tribe of Manasseh </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_5_23"> <sup>23</sup>The people of the half-tribe of Manasseh were numerous; they settled in the land from Bashan to Baal Hermon, that is, to Senir (Mount Hermon). <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_24"> <sup>24</sup>These were the heads of their families: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah and Jahdiel. They were brave warriors, famous men, and heads of their families. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_25"><sup>25</sup>But they were unfaithful to the God of their ancestors and prostituted themselves to the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had destroyed before them. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_5_26"><sup>26</sup>So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria (that is, Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria), who took the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh into exile. He took them to Halah, Habor, Hara and the river of Gozan, where they are to this day. <br/></span>
