---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1su_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>All Israel was listed in the genealogies recorded in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. They were taken captive to Babylon because of their unfaithfulness. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The People in Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_9_2"> <sup>2</sup>Now the first to resettle on their own property in their own towns were some Israelites, priests, Levites and temple servants. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_3"> <sup>3</sup>Those from Judah, from Benjamin, and from Ephraim and Manasseh who lived in Jerusalem were: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_4">  <sup>4</sup>Uthai son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, a descendant of Perez son of Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_5">  <sup>5</sup>Of the Shelanites<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Num. 26:20; Hebrew Shilonites .">⚓</a> : <br/>    Asaiah the firstborn and his sons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_6">  <sup>6</sup>Of the Zerahites: <br/>    Jeuel. <br/>    The people from Judah numbered 690. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_7">  <sup>7</sup>Of the Benjamites: <br/>    Sallu son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_8">    <sup>8</sup>Ibneiah son of Jeroham; Elah son of Uzzi, the son of Mikri; and Meshullam son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_9">    <sup>9</sup>The people from Benjamin, as listed in their genealogy, numbered 956. All these men were heads of their families. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_10">  <sup>10</sup>Of the priests: <br/>    Jedaiah; Jehoiarib; Jakin; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_11">    <sup>11</sup>Azariah son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the official in charge of the house of God; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_12">    <sup>12</sup>Adaiah son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malkijah; and Maasai son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_13">    <sup>13</sup>The priests, who were heads of families, numbered 1,760. They were able men, responsible for ministering in the house of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_14">  <sup>14</sup>Of the Levites: <br/>    Shemaiah son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, a Merarite; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_15"><sup>15</sup>Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal and Mattaniah son of Mika, the son of Zikri, the son of Asaph; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_16"><sup>16</sup>Obadiah son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berekiah son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_17">  <sup>17</sup>The gatekeepers: <br/>    Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman and their fellow Levites, Shallum their chief </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_18"><sup>18</sup>being stationed at the King’s Gate on the east, up to the present time. These were the gatekeepers belonging to the camp of the Levites. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_19"><sup>19</sup>Shallum son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his fellow gatekeepers from his family (the Korahites) were responsible for guarding the thresholds of the tent just as their ancestors had been responsible for guarding the entrance to the dwelling of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_20"><sup>20</sup>In earlier times Phinehas son of Eleazar was the official in charge of the gatekeepers, and the Lord was with him. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_21"><sup>21</sup>Zechariah son of Meshelemiah was the gatekeeper at the entrance to the tent of meeting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_22"> <sup>22</sup>Altogether, those chosen to be gatekeepers at the thresholds numbered 212. They were registered by genealogy in their villages. The gatekeepers had been assigned to their positions of trust by David and Samuel the seer. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_23"><sup>23</sup>They and their descendants were in charge of guarding the gates of the house of the Lord—the house called the tent of meeting. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_24"><sup>24</sup>The gatekeepers were on the four sides: east, west, north and south. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_25"><sup>25</sup>Their fellow Levites in their villages had to come from time to time and share their duties for seven-day periods. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_26"><sup>26</sup>But the four principal gatekeepers, who were Levites, were entrusted with the responsibility for the rooms and treasuries in the house of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_27"><sup>27</sup>They would spend the night stationed around the house of God, because they had to guard it; and they had charge of the key for opening it each morning. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_28"> <sup>28</sup>Some of them were in charge of the articles used in the temple service; they counted them when they were brought in and when they were taken out. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_29"><sup>29</sup>Others were assigned to take care of the furnishings and all the other articles of the sanctuary, as well as the special flour and wine, and the olive oil, incense and spices. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_30"><sup>30</sup>But some of the priests took care of mixing the spices. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_31"><sup>31</sup>A Levite named Mattithiah, the firstborn son of Shallum the Korahite, was entrusted with the responsibility for baking the offering bread. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_32"><sup>32</sup>Some of the Kohathites, their fellow Levites, were in charge of preparing for every Sabbath the bread set out on the table. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_33"> <sup>33</sup>Those who were musicians, heads of Levite families, stayed in the rooms of the temple and were exempt from other duties because they were responsible for the work day and night. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_34"> <sup>34</sup>All these were heads of Levite families, chiefs as listed in their genealogy, and they lived in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Genealogy of Saul </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_9_35">  <sup>35</sup>Jeiel the father<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="may mean civic leader or military leader.">⚓</a> of Gibeon lived in Gibeon. <br/>    His wife’s name was Maakah, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_36"><sup>36</sup>and his firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_37"><sup>37</sup>Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah and Mikloth. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_38"><sup>38</sup>Mikloth was the father of Shimeam. They too lived near their relatives in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_39">  <sup>39</sup>Ner was the father of Kish, Kish the father of Saul, and Saul the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab and Esh-Baal.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Also known as Ish-Bosheth">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_40">  <sup>40</sup>The son of Jonathan: <br/>    Merib-Baal,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Also known as Mephibosheth">⚓</a> who was the father of Micah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_41">  <sup>41</sup>The sons of Micah: <br/>    Pithon, Melek, Tahrea and Ahaz.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Vulgate and Syriac (see also Septuagint and 8:35); Hebrew does not have and Ahaz.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_42">    <sup>42</sup>Ahaz was the father of Jadah, Jadah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint (see also 8:36); most Hebrew manuscripts Jarah, Jarah">⚓</a> was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri, and Zimri was the father of Moza. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_43"><sup>43</sup>Moza was the father of Binea; Rephaiah was his son, Eleasah his son and Azel his son. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_9_44">  <sup>44</sup>Azel had six sons, and these were their names: <br/>    Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel. <br/></span>
