---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>David Becomes King Over Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>All Israel came together to David at Hebron and said, “We are your own flesh and blood. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_2"><sup>2</sup>In the past, even while Saul was king, you were the one who led Israel on their military campaigns. And the Lord your God said to you, ‘You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will become their ruler.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_3"> <sup>3</sup>When all the elders of Israel had come to King David at Hebron, he made a covenant with them at Hebron before the Lord, and they anointed David king over Israel, as the Lord had promised through Samuel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David Conquers Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>David and all the Israelites marched to Jerusalem (that is, Jebus). The Jebusites who lived there </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_5"><sup>5</sup>said to David, “You will not get in here.” Nevertheless, David captured the fortress of Zion—which is the City of David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_6"> <sup>6</sup>David had said, “Whoever leads the attack on the Jebusites will become commander-in-chief.” Joab son of Zeruiah went up first, and so he received the command. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>David then took up residence in the fortress, and so it was called the City of David. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_8"><sup>8</sup>He built up the city around it, from the terraces<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the Millo">⚓</a> to the surrounding wall, while Joab restored the rest of the city. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_9"><sup>9</sup>And David became more and more powerful, because the Lord Almighty was with him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David’s Mighty Warriors </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_11_10"> <sup>10</sup>These were the chiefs of David’s mighty warriors—they, together with all Israel, gave his kingship strong support to extend it over the whole land, as the Lord had promised— </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_11"><sup>11</sup>this is the list of David’s mighty warriors: <br/> Jashobeam,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Possibly a variant of Jashob-Baal">⚓</a> a Hakmonite, was chief of the officers<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Thirty ; some Septuagint manuscripts Three (see also 2 Samuel 23:8)">⚓</a> ; he raised his spear against three hundred men, whom he killed in one encounter. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_12"> <sup>12</sup>Next to him was Eleazar son of Dodai the Ahohite, one of the three mighty warriors. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_13"><sup>13</sup>He was with David at Pas Dammim when the Philistines gathered there for battle. At a place where there was a field full of barley, the troops fled from the Philistines. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_14"><sup>14</sup>But they took their stand in the middle of the field. They defended it and struck the Philistines down, and the Lord brought about a great victory. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_15"> <sup>15</sup>Three of the thirty chiefs came down to David to the rock at the cave of Adullam, while a band of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_16"><sup>16</sup>At that time David was in the stronghold, and the Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_17"><sup>17</sup>David longed for water and said, “Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem!” </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_18"><sup>18</sup>So the Three broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem and carried it back to David. But he refused to drink it; instead, he poured it out to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_19"><sup>19</sup>“God forbid that I should do this!” he said. “Should I drink the blood of these men who went at the risk of their lives?” Because they risked their lives to bring it back, David would not drink it. <br/> Such were the exploits of the three mighty warriors. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_20"> <sup>20</sup>Abishai the brother of Joab was chief of the Three. He raised his spear against three hundred men, whom he killed, and so he became as famous as the Three. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_21"><sup>21</sup>He was doubly honored above the Three and became their commander, even though he was not included among them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>Benaiah son of Jehoiada, a valiant fighter from Kabzeel, performed great exploits. He struck down Moab’s two mightiest warriors. He also went down into a pit on a snowy day and killed a lion. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_23"><sup>23</sup>And he struck down an Egyptian who was five cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 7 feet 6 inches or about 2.3 meters">⚓</a> tall. Although the Egyptian had a spear like a weaver’s rod in his hand, Benaiah went against him with a club. He snatched the spear from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_24"><sup>24</sup>Such were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada; he too was as famous as the three mighty warriors. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_25"><sup>25</sup>He was held in greater honor than any of the Thirty, but he was not included among the Three. And David put him in charge of his bodyguard. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_26">  <sup>26</sup>The mighty warriors were: <br/>    Asahel the brother of Joab, <br/>    Elhanan son of Dodo from Bethlehem, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_27">    <sup>27</sup>Shammoth the Harorite, <br/>    Helez the Pelonite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_28">    <sup>28</sup>Ira son of Ikkesh from Tekoa, <br/>    Abiezer from Anathoth, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_29">    <sup>29</sup>Sibbekai the Hushathite, <br/>    Ilai the Ahohite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_30">    <sup>30</sup>Maharai the Netophathite, <br/>    Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_31">    <sup>31</sup>Ithai son of Ribai from Gibeah in Benjamin, <br/>    Benaiah the Pirathonite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_32">    <sup>32</sup>Hurai from the ravines of Gaash, <br/>    Abiel the Arbathite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_33">    <sup>33</sup>Azmaveth the Baharumite, <br/>    Eliahba the Shaalbonite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_34">    <sup>34</sup>the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, <br/>    Jonathan son of Shagee the Hararite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_35">    <sup>35</sup>Ahiam son of Sakar the Hararite, <br/>    Eliphal son of Ur, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_36">    <sup>36</sup>Hepher the Mekerathite, <br/>    Ahijah the Pelonite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_37">    <sup>37</sup>Hezro the Carmelite, <br/>    Naarai son of Ezbai, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_38">    <sup>38</sup>Joel the brother of Nathan, <br/>    Mibhar son of Hagri, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_39">    <sup>39</sup>Zelek the Ammonite, <br/>    Naharai the Berothite, the armor-bearer of Joab son of Zeruiah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_40">    <sup>40</sup>Ira the Ithrite, <br/>    Gareb the Ithrite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_41">    <sup>41</sup>Uriah the Hittite, <br/>    Zabad son of Ahlai, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_42">    <sup>42</sup>Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, who was chief of the Reubenites, and the thirty with him, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_43">    <sup>43</sup>Hanan son of Maakah, <br/>    Joshaphat the Mithnite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_44">    <sup>44</sup>Uzzia the Ashterathite, <br/>    Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_45">    <sup>45</sup>Jediael son of Shimri, <br/>    his brother Joha the Tizite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_46">    <sup>46</sup>Eliel the Mahavite, <br/>    Jeribai and Joshaviah the sons of Elnaam, <br/>    Ithmah the Moabite, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_11_47">    <sup>47</sup>Eliel, Obed and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. <br/></span>
