---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Warriors Join David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>These were the men who came to David at Ziklag, while he was banished from the presence of Saul son of Kish (they were among the warriors who helped him in battle; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_2"><sup>2</sup>they were armed with bows and were able to shoot arrows or to sling stones right-handed or left-handed; they were relatives of Saul from the tribe of Benjamin): <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_3"> <sup>3</sup>Ahiezer their chief and Joash the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; Jeziel and Pelet the sons of Azmaveth; Berakah, Jehu the Anathothite, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_4"><sup>4</sup>and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty warrior among the Thirty, who was a leader of the Thirty; Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad the Gederathite,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In Hebrew texts the second half of this verse (Jeremiah … Gederathite ) is numbered 12:5, and 12:5-40 is numbered 12:6-41.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_5"><sup>5</sup>Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah and Shephatiah the Haruphite; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_6"><sup>6</sup>Elkanah, Ishiah, Azarel, Joezer and Jashobeam the Korahites; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_7"><sup>7</sup>and Joelah and Zebadiah the sons of Jeroham from Gedor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>Some Gadites defected to David at his stronghold in the wilderness. They were brave warriors, ready for battle and able to handle the shield and spear. Their faces were the faces of lions, and they were as swift as gazelles in the mountains. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_9">  <sup>9</sup>Ezer was the chief, <br/>  Obadiah the second in command, Eliab the third, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_10">  <sup>10</sup>Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_11">  <sup>11</sup>Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_12">  <sup>12</sup>Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_13">  <sup>13</sup>Jeremiah the tenth and Makbannai the eleventh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_14"> <sup>14</sup>These Gadites were army commanders; the least was a match for a hundred, and the greatest for a thousand. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_15"><sup>15</sup>It was they who crossed the Jordan in the first month when it was overflowing all its banks, and they put to flight everyone living in the valleys, to the east and to the west. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_16"> <sup>16</sup>Other Benjamites and some men from Judah also came to David in his stronghold. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_17"><sup>17</sup>David went out to meet them and said to them, “If you have come to me in peace to help me, I am ready for you to join me. But if you have come to betray me to my enemies when my hands are free from violence, may the God of our ancestors see it and judge you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then the Spirit came on Amasai, chief of the Thirty, and he said: <br/>  “We are yours, David! <br/>   We are with you, son of Jesse! <br/>  Success, success to you, <br/>   and success to those who help you, <br/>    for your God will help you.” <br/> So David received them and made them leaders of his raiding bands. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_19"> <sup>19</sup>Some of the tribe of Manasseh defected to David when he went with the Philistines to fight against Saul. (He and his men did not help the Philistines because, after consultation, their rulers sent him away. They said, “It will cost us our heads if he deserts to his master Saul.”) </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_20"><sup>20</sup>When David went to Ziklag, these were the men of Manasseh who defected to him: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu and Zillethai, leaders of units of a thousand in Manasseh. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_21"><sup>21</sup>They helped David against raiding bands, for all of them were brave warriors, and they were commanders in his army. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_22"><sup>22</sup>Day after day men came to help David, until he had a great army, like the army of God.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or a great and mighty army">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Others Join David at Hebron </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_12_23"> <sup>23</sup>These are the numbers of the men armed for battle who came to David at Hebron to turn Saul’s kingdom over to him, as the Lord had said: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_24">  <sup>24</sup>from Judah, carrying shield and spear—6,800 armed for battle; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_25">  <sup>25</sup>from Simeon, warriors ready for battle—7,100; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_26">  <sup>26</sup>from Levi—4,600, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_27"><sup>27</sup>including Jehoiada, leader of the family of Aaron, with 3,700 men, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_28"><sup>28</sup>and Zadok, a brave young warrior, with 22 officers from his family; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_29">  <sup>29</sup>from Benjamin, Saul’s tribe—3,000, most of whom had remained loyal to Saul’s house until then; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_30">  <sup>30</sup>from Ephraim, brave warriors, famous in their own clans—20,800; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_31">  <sup>31</sup>from half the tribe of Manasseh, designated by name to come and make David king—18,000; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_32">  <sup>32</sup>from Issachar, men who understood the times and knew what Israel should do—200 chiefs, with all their relatives under their command; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_33">  <sup>33</sup>from Zebulun, experienced soldiers prepared for battle with every type of weapon, to help David with undivided loyalty—50,000; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_34">  <sup>34</sup>from Naphtali—1,000 officers, together with 37,000 men carrying shields and spears; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_35">  <sup>35</sup>from Dan, ready for battle—28,600; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_36">  <sup>36</sup>from Asher, experienced soldiers prepared for battle—40,000; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_37">  <sup>37</sup>and from east of the Jordan, from Reuben, Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh, armed with every type of weapon—120,000. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_38"> <sup>38</sup>All these were fighting men who volunteered to serve in the ranks. They came to Hebron fully determined to make David king over all Israel. All the rest of the Israelites were also of one mind to make David king. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_39"><sup>39</sup>The men spent three days there with David, eating and drinking, for their families had supplied provisions for them. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_12_40"><sup>40</sup>Also, their neighbors from as far away as Issachar, Zebulun and Naphtali came bringing food on donkeys, camels, mules and oxen. There were plentiful supplies of flour, fig cakes, raisin cakes, wine, olive oil, cattle and sheep, for there was joy in Israel. <br/></span>
