---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Bringing Back the Ark </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>David conferred with each of his officers, the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_2"><sup>2</sup>He then said to the whole assembly of Israel, “If it seems good to you and if it is the will of the Lord our God, let us send word far and wide to the rest of our people throughout the territories of Israel, and also to the priests and Levites who are with them in their towns and pasturelands, to come and join us. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_3"><sup>3</sup>Let us bring the ark of our God back to us, for we did not inquire of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or we neglected">⚓</a> it<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or him">⚓</a> during the reign of Saul.” </span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_4"><sup>4</sup>The whole assembly agreed to do this, because it seemed right to all the people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_5"> <sup>5</sup>So David assembled all Israel, from the Shihor River in Egypt to Lebo Hamath, to bring the ark of God from Kiriath Jearim. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_6"><sup>6</sup>David and all Israel went to Baalah of Judah (Kiriath Jearim) to bring up from there the ark of God the Lord, who is enthroned between the cherubim—the ark that is called by the Name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_7"> <sup>7</sup>They moved the ark of God from Abinadab’s house on a new cart, with Uzzah and Ahio guiding it. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_8"><sup>8</sup>David and all the Israelites were celebrating with all their might before God, with songs and with harps, lyres, timbrels, cymbals and trumpets. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_9"> <sup>9</sup>When they came to the threshing floor of Kidon, Uzzah reached out his hand to steady the ark, because the oxen stumbled. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_10"><sup>10</sup>The Lord’s anger burned against Uzzah, and he struck him down because he had put his hand on the ark. So he died there before God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then David was angry because the Lord’s wrath had broken out against Uzzah, and to this day that place is called Perez Uzzah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means outbreak against Uzzah.">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_12"> <sup>12</sup>David was afraid of God that day and asked, “How can I ever bring the ark of God to me?” </span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_13"><sup>13</sup>He did not take the ark to be with him in the City of David. Instead, he took it to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_13_14"><sup>14</sup>The ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house for three months, and the Lord blessed his household and everything he had. <br/></span>
