---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>David’s House and Family </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with cedar logs, stonemasons and carpenters to build a palace for him. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_2"><sup>2</sup>And David knew that the Lord had established him as king over Israel and that his kingdom had been highly exalted for the sake of his people Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_3"> <sup>3</sup>In Jerusalem David took more wives and became the father of more sons and daughters. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_4"><sup>4</sup>These are the names of the children born to him there: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_5"><sup>5</sup>Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_6"><sup>6</sup>Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_7"><sup>7</sup>Elishama, Beeliada<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A variant of Eliada">⚓</a> and Eliphelet. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David Defeats the Philistines </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_14_8"> <sup>8</sup>When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, they went up in full force to search for him, but David heard about it and went out to meet them. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_9"><sup>9</sup>Now the Philistines had come and raided the Valley of Rephaim; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_10"><sup>10</sup>so David inquired of God: “Shall I go and attack the Philistines? Will you deliver them into my hands?” <br/> The Lord answered him, “Go, I will deliver them into your hands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_11"> <sup>11</sup>So David and his men went up to Baal Perazim, and there he defeated them. He said, “As waters break out, God has broken out against my enemies by my hand.” So that place was called Baal Perazim.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="means the lord who breaks out.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_12"><sup>12</sup>The Philistines had abandoned their gods there, and David gave orders to burn them in the fire. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>Once more the Philistines raided the valley; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_14"><sup>14</sup>so David inquired of God again, and God answered him, “Do not go directly after them, but circle around them and attack them in front of the poplar trees. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_15"><sup>15</sup>As soon as you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the poplar trees, move out to battle, because that will mean God has gone out in front of you to strike the Philistine army.” </span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_16"><sup>16</sup>So David did as God commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army, all the way from Gibeon to Gezer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_14_17"> <sup>17</sup>So David’s fame spread throughout every land, and the Lord made all the nations fear him. <br/></span>
