---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>The Ark Brought to Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>After David had constructed buildings for himself in the City of David, he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_2"><sup>2</sup>Then David said, “No one but the Levites may carry the ark of God, because the Lord chose them to carry the ark of the Lord and to minister before him forever.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_3"> <sup>3</sup>David assembled all Israel in Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the Lord to the place he had prepared for it. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_4"><sup>4</sup>He called together the descendants of Aaron and the Levites: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_5">  <sup>5</sup>From the descendants of Kohath, <br/>    Uriel the leader and 120 relatives; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_6">  <sup>6</sup>from the descendants of Merari, <br/>    Asaiah the leader and 220 relatives; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_7">  <sup>7</sup>from the descendants of Gershon,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Gershom, a variant of Gershon">⚓</a><br/>    Joel the leader and 130 relatives; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_8">  <sup>8</sup>from the descendants of Elizaphan, <br/>    Shemaiah the leader and 200 relatives; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_9">  <sup>9</sup>from the descendants of Hebron, <br/>    Eliel the leader and 80 relatives; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_10">  <sup>10</sup>from the descendants of Uzziel, <br/>    Amminadab the leader and 112 relatives. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then David summoned Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab the Levites. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_12"><sup>12</sup>He said to them, “You are the heads of the Levitical families; you and your fellow Levites are to consecrate yourselves and bring up the ark of the Lord, the God of Israel, to the place I have prepared for it. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_13"><sup>13</sup>It was because you, the Levites, did not bring it up the first time that the Lord our God broke out in anger against us. We did not inquire of him about how to do it in the prescribed way.” </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_14"><sup>14</sup>So the priests and Levites consecrated themselves in order to bring up the ark of the Lord, the God of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_15"><sup>15</sup>And the Levites carried the ark of God with the poles on their shoulders, as Moses had commanded in accordance with the word of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_16"> <sup>16</sup>David told the leaders of the Levites to appoint their fellow Levites as musicians to make a joyful sound with musical instruments: lyres, harps and cymbals. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_17"> <sup>17</sup>So the Levites appointed Heman son of Joel; from his relatives, Asaph son of Berekiah; and from their relatives the Merarites, Ethan son of Kushaiah; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_18"><sup>18</sup>and with them their relatives next in rank: Zechariah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Three Hebrew manuscripts and most Septuagint manuscripts (see also verse 20 and 16:5); most Hebrew manuscripts Zechariah son and or Zechariah, Ben and">⚓</a> Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew; Septuagint (see also verse 21) Jeiel and Azaziah">⚓</a> the gatekeepers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_19"> <sup>19</sup>The musicians Heman, Asaph and Ethan were to sound the bronze cymbals; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_20"><sup>20</sup>Zechariah, Jaaziel,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See verse 18; Hebrew Aziel , a variant of Jaaziel .">⚓</a> Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah and Benaiah were to play the lyres according to <em>alamoth,</em><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probably a musical term">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_21"><sup>21</sup>and Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, Jeiel and Azaziah were to play the harps, directing according to <em>sheminith.</em><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probably a musical term">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_22"><sup>22</sup>Kenaniah the head Levite was in charge of the singing; that was his responsibility because he was skillful at it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_23"> <sup>23</sup>Berekiah and Elkanah were to be doorkeepers for the ark. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_24"><sup>24</sup>Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah and Eliezer the priests were to blow trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-Edom and Jehiah were also to be doorkeepers for the ark. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_25"> <sup>25</sup>So David and the elders of Israel and the commanders of units of a thousand went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord from the house of Obed-Edom, with rejoicing. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_26"><sup>26</sup>Because God had helped the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the Lord, seven bulls and seven rams were sacrificed. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_27"><sup>27</sup>Now David was clothed in a robe of fine linen, as were all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and as were the musicians, and Kenaniah, who was in charge of the singing of the choirs. David also wore a linen ephod. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_28"><sup>28</sup>So all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the Lord with shouts, with the sounding of rams’ horns and trumpets, and of cymbals, and the playing of lyres and harps. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_15_29"> <sup>29</sup>As the ark of the covenant of the Lord was entering the City of David, Michal daughter of Saul watched from a window. And when she saw King David dancing and celebrating, she despised him in her heart. <br/></span>
