---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>God’s Promise to David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>After David was settled in his palace, he said to Nathan the prophet, “Here I am, living in a house of cedar, while the ark of the covenant of the Lord is under a tent.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_2"> <sup>2</sup>Nathan replied to David, “Whatever you have in mind, do it, for God is with you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_3"> <sup>3</sup>But that night the word of God came to Nathan, saying: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_4"> <sup>4</sup>“Go and tell my servant David, ‘This is what the Lord says: You are not the one to build me a house to dwell in. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_5"><sup>5</sup>I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought Israel up out of Egypt to this day. I have moved from one tent site to another, from one dwelling place to another. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_6"><sup>6</sup>Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of their leaders<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Traditionally judges ; also in verse 10">⚓</a> whom I commanded to shepherd my people, “Why have you not built me a house of cedar?” ’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Now then, tell my servant David, ‘This is what the Lord Almighty says: I took you from the pasture, from tending the flock, and appointed you ruler over my people Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_8"><sup>8</sup>I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I will make your name like the names of the greatest men on earth. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_9"><sup>9</sup>And I will provide a place for my people Israel and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer be disturbed. Wicked people will not oppress them anymore, as they did at the beginning </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_10"><sup>10</sup>and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders over my people Israel. I will also subdue all your enemies. <br/> “ ‘I declare to you that the Lord will build a house for you: </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_11"><sup>11</sup>When your days are over and you go to be with your ancestors, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_12"><sup>12</sup>He is the one who will build a house for me, and I will establish his throne forever. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_13"><sup>13</sup>I will be his father, and he will be my son. I will never take my love away from him, as I took it away from your predecessor. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_14"><sup>14</sup>I will set him over my house and my kingdom forever; his throne will be established forever.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_15"> <sup>15</sup>Nathan reported to David all the words of this entire revelation. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David’s Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_17_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then King David went in and sat before the Lord, and he said: <br/> “Who am I, Lord God, and what is my family, that you have brought me this far? </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_17"><sup>17</sup>And as if this were not enough in your sight, my God, you have spoken about the future of the house of your servant. You, Lord God, have looked on me as though I were the most exalted of men. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_18"> <sup>18</sup>“What more can David say to you for honoring your servant? For you know your servant, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_19"><sup>19</sup>Lord. For the sake of your servant and according to your will, you have done this great thing and made known all these great promises. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_20"> <sup>20</sup>“There is no one like you, Lord, and there is no God but you, as we have heard with our own ears. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_21"><sup>21</sup>And who is like your people Israel—the one nation on earth whose God went out to redeem a people for himself, and to make a name for yourself, and to perform great and awesome wonders by driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt? </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_22"><sup>22</sup>You made your people Israel your very own forever, and you, Lord, have become their God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_23"> <sup>23</sup>“And now, Lord, let the promise you have made concerning your servant and his house be established forever. Do as you promised, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_24"><sup>24</sup>so that it will be established and that your name will be great forever. Then people will say, ‘The Lord Almighty, the God over Israel, is Israel’s God!’ And the house of your servant David will be established before you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_25"> <sup>25</sup>“You, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build a house for him. So your servant has found courage to pray to you. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_26"><sup>26</sup>You, Lord, are God! You have promised these good things to your servant. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_17_27"><sup>27</sup>Now you have been pleased to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever in your sight; for you, Lord, have blessed it, and it will be blessed forever.” <br/></span>
