---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>David’s Victories </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the course of time, David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and he took Gath and its surrounding villages from the control of the Philistines. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_2"> <sup>2</sup>David also defeated the Moabites, and they became subject to him and brought him tribute. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_3"> <sup>3</sup>Moreover, David defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah, in the vicinity of Hamath, when he went to set up his monument at<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or to restore his control over">⚓</a> the Euphrates River. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_4"><sup>4</sup>David captured a thousand of his chariots, seven thousand charioteers and twenty thousand foot soldiers. He hamstrung all but a hundred of the chariot horses. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_5"> <sup>5</sup>When the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck down twenty-two thousand of them. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_6"><sup>6</sup>He put garrisons in the Aramean kingdom of Damascus, and the Arameans became subject to him and brought him tribute. The Lord gave David victory wherever he went. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_7"> <sup>7</sup>David took the gold shields carried by the officers of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_8"><sup>8</sup>From Tebah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Tibhath, a variant of Tebah">⚓</a> and Kun, towns that belonged to Hadadezer, David took a great quantity of bronze, which Solomon used to make the bronze Sea, the pillars and various bronze articles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the entire army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_10"><sup>10</sup>he sent his son Hadoram to King David to greet him and congratulate him on his victory in battle over Hadadezer, who had been at war with Tou. Hadoram brought all kinds of articles of gold, of silver and of bronze. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_11"> <sup>11</sup>King David dedicated these articles to the Lord, as he had done with the silver and gold he had taken from all these nations: Edom and Moab, the Ammonites and the Philistines, and Amalek. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_12"> <sup>12</sup>Abishai son of Zeruiah struck down eighteen thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_13"><sup>13</sup>He put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became subject to David. The Lord gave David victory wherever he went. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David’s Officials </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_18_14"> <sup>14</sup>David reigned over all Israel, doing what was just and right for all his people. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_15"><sup>15</sup>Joab son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_16"><sup>16</sup>Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelek<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts, Vulgate and Syriac (see also 2 Samuel 8:17); most Hebrew manuscripts Abimelek">⚓</a> son of Abiathar were priests; Shavsha was secretary; </span>
<span class="verse 1su_18_17"><sup>17</sup>Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the Kerethites and Pelethites; and David’s sons were chief officials at the king’s side. <br/></span>
