---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\20.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>20</h1><h3>The Capture of Rabbah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_20_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the spring, at the time when kings go off to war, Joab led out the armed forces. He laid waste the land of the Ammonites and went to Rabbah and besieged it, but David remained in Jerusalem. Joab attacked Rabbah and left it in ruins. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_20_2"><sup>2</sup>David took the crown from the head of their king<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or of Milkom, that is, Molek">⚓</a> —its weight was found to be a talent<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 75 pounds or about 34 kilograms">⚓</a> of gold, and it was set with precious stones—and it was placed on David’s head. He took a great quantity of plunder from the city </span>
<span class="verse 1su_20_3"><sup>3</sup>and brought out the people who were there, consigning them to labor with saws and with iron picks and axes. David did this to all the Ammonite towns. Then David and his entire army returned to Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>War With the Philistines </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_20_4"> <sup>4</sup>In the course of time, war broke out with the Philistines, at Gezer. At that time Sibbekai the Hushathite killed Sippai, one of the descendants of the Rephaites, and the Philistines were subjugated. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_20_5"> <sup>5</sup>In another battle with the Philistines, Elhanan son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, who had a spear with a shaft like a weaver’s rod. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_20_6"> <sup>6</sup>In still another battle, which took place at Gath, there was a huge man with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot—twenty-four in all. He also was descended from Rapha. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_20_7"><sup>7</sup>When he taunted Israel, Jonathan son of Shimea, David’s brother, killed him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_20_8"> <sup>8</sup>These were descendants of Rapha in Gath, and they fell at the hands of David and his men. <br/></span>
