---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1su_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then David said, “The house of the Lord God is to be here, and also the altar of burnt offering for Israel.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Preparations for the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_22_2"> <sup>2</sup>So David gave orders to assemble the foreigners residing in Israel, and from among them he appointed stonecutters to prepare dressed stone for building the house of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_3"><sup>3</sup>He provided a large amount of iron to make nails for the doors of the gateways and for the fittings, and more bronze than could be weighed. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_4"><sup>4</sup>He also provided more cedar logs than could be counted, for the Sidonians and Tyrians had brought large numbers of them to David. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_5"> <sup>5</sup>David said, “My son Solomon is young and inexperienced, and the house to be built for the Lord should be of great magnificence and fame and splendor in the sight of all the nations. Therefore I will make preparations for it.” So David made extensive preparations before his death. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then he called for his son Solomon and charged him to build a house for the Lord, the God of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_7"><sup>7</sup>David said to Solomon: “My son, I had it in my heart to build a house for the Name of the Lord my God. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_8"><sup>8</sup>But this word of the Lord came to me: ‘You have shed much blood and have fought many wars. You are not to build a house for my Name, because you have shed much blood on the earth in my sight. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_9"><sup>9</sup>But you will have a son who will be a man of peace and rest, and I will give him rest from all his enemies on every side. His name will be Solomon,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="sounds like and may be derived from the Hebrew for peace.">⚓</a> and I will grant Israel peace and quiet during his reign. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_10"><sup>10</sup>He is the one who will build a house for my Name. He will be my son, and I will be his father. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Now, my son, the Lord be with you, and may you have success and build the house of the Lord your God, as he said you would. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_12"><sup>12</sup>May the Lord give you discretion and understanding when he puts you in command over Israel, so that you may keep the law of the Lord your God. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_13"><sup>13</sup>Then you will have success if you are careful to observe the decrees and laws that the Lord gave Moses for Israel. Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or discouraged. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_14"> <sup>14</sup>“I have taken great pains to provide for the temple of the Lord a hundred thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3,750 tons or about 3,400 metric tons">⚓</a> of gold, a million talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 37,500 tons or about 34,000 metric tons">⚓</a> of silver, quantities of bronze and iron too great to be weighed, and wood and stone. And you may add to them. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_15"><sup>15</sup>You have many workers: stonecutters, masons and carpenters, as well as those skilled in every kind of work </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_16"><sup>16</sup>in gold and silver, bronze and iron—craftsmen beyond number. Now begin the work, and the Lord be with you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then David ordered all the leaders of Israel to help his son Solomon. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_18"><sup>18</sup>He said to them, “Is not the Lord your God with you? And has he not granted you rest on every side? For he has given the inhabitants of the land into my hands, and the land is subject to the Lord and to his people. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_22_19"><sup>19</sup>Now devote your heart and soul to seeking the Lord your God. Begin to build the sanctuary of the Lord God, so that you may bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord and the sacred articles belonging to God into the temple that will be built for the Name of the Lord.” <br/></span>
