---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\23.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>23</h1><h3>The Levites </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_23_1"> <sup>1</sup>When David was old and full of years, he made his son Solomon king over Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_2"> <sup>2</sup>He also gathered together all the leaders of Israel, as well as the priests and Levites. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_3"><sup>3</sup>The Levites thirty years old or more were counted, and the total number of men was thirty-eight thousand. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_4"><sup>4</sup>David said, “Of these, twenty-four thousand are to be in charge of the work of the temple of the Lord and six thousand are to be officials and judges. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_5"><sup>5</sup>Four thousand are to be gatekeepers and four thousand are to praise the Lord with the musical instruments I have provided for that purpose.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_6"> <sup>6</sup>David separated the Levites into divisions corresponding to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath and Merari. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Gershonites </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_23_7">  <sup>7</sup>Belonging to the Gershonites: <br/>    Ladan and Shimei. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_8">  <sup>8</sup>The sons of Ladan: <br/>    Jehiel the first, Zetham and Joel—three in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_9">  <sup>9</sup>The sons of Shimei: <br/>    Shelomoth, Haziel and Haran—three in all. <br/>    These were the heads of the families of Ladan. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_10">  <sup>10</sup>And the sons of Shimei: <br/>    Jahath, Ziza,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="One Hebrew manuscript, Septuagint and Vulgate (see also verse 11); most Hebrew manuscripts Zina">⚓</a> Jeush and Beriah. <br/>    These were the sons of Shimei—four in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_11">    <sup>11</sup>Jahath was the first and Ziza the second, but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons; so they were counted as one family with one assignment. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Kohathites </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_23_12">  <sup>12</sup>The sons of Kohath: <br/>    Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel—four in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_13">  <sup>13</sup>The sons of Amram: <br/>    Aaron and Moses. <br/>    Aaron was set apart, he and his descendants forever, to consecrate the most holy things, to offer sacrifices before the Lord, to minister before him and to pronounce blessings in his name forever. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_14"><sup>14</sup>The sons of Moses the man of God were counted as part of the tribe of Levi. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_15">  <sup>15</sup>The sons of Moses: <br/>    Gershom and Eliezer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_16">  <sup>16</sup>The descendants of Gershom: <br/>    Shubael was the first. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_17">  <sup>17</sup>The descendants of Eliezer: <br/>    Rehabiah was the first. <br/>    Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very numerous. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_18">  <sup>18</sup>The sons of Izhar: <br/>    Shelomith was the first. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_19">  <sup>19</sup>The sons of Hebron: <br/>    Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third and Jekameam the fourth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_20">  <sup>20</sup>The sons of Uzziel: <br/>    Micah the first and Ishiah the second. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Merarites </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_23_21">  <sup>21</sup>The sons of Merari: <br/>    Mahli and Mushi. <br/>  The sons of Mahli: <br/>    Eleazar and Kish. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_22">    <sup>22</sup>Eleazar died without having sons: he had only daughters. Their cousins, the sons of Kish, married them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_23">  <sup>23</sup>The sons of Mushi: <br/>    Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth—three in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_24"> <sup>24</sup>These were the descendants of Levi by their families—the heads of families as they were registered under their names and counted individually, that is, the workers twenty years old or more who served in the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_25"><sup>25</sup>For David had said, “Since the Lord, the God of Israel, has granted rest to his people and has come to dwell in Jerusalem forever, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_26"><sup>26</sup>the Levites no longer need to carry the tabernacle or any of the articles used in its service.” </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_27"><sup>27</sup>According to the last instructions of David, the Levites were counted from those twenty years old or more. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_28"> <sup>28</sup>The duty of the Levites was to help Aaron’s descendants in the service of the temple of the Lord: to be in charge of the courtyards, the side rooms, the purification of all sacred things and the performance of other duties at the house of God. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_29"><sup>29</sup>They were in charge of the bread set out on the table, the special flour for the grain offerings, the thin loaves made without yeast, the baking and the mixing, and all measurements of quantity and size. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_30"><sup>30</sup>They were also to stand every morning to thank and praise the Lord. They were to do the same in the evening </span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_31"><sup>31</sup>and whenever burnt offerings were presented to the Lord on the Sabbaths, at the New Moon feasts and at the appointed festivals. They were to serve before the Lord regularly in the proper number and in the way prescribed for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_23_32"> <sup>32</sup>And so the Levites carried out their responsibilities for the tent of meeting, for the Holy Place and, under their relatives the descendants of Aaron, for the service of the temple of the Lord. <br/></span>
