---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>The Divisions of Priests </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>These were the divisions of the descendants of Aaron: <br/> The sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_2"><sup>2</sup>But Nadab and Abihu died before their father did, and they had no sons; so Eleazar and Ithamar served as the priests. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_3"><sup>3</sup>With the help of Zadok a descendant of Eleazar and Ahimelek a descendant of Ithamar, David separated them into divisions for their appointed order of ministering. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_4"><sup>4</sup>A larger number of leaders were found among Eleazar’s descendants than among Ithamar’s, and they were divided accordingly: sixteen heads of families from Eleazar’s descendants and eight heads of families from Ithamar’s descendants. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_5"><sup>5</sup>They divided them impartially by casting lots, for there were officials of the sanctuary and officials of God among the descendants of both Eleazar and Ithamar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_6"> <sup>6</sup>The scribe Shemaiah son of Nethanel, a Levite, recorded their names in the presence of the king and of the officials: Zadok the priest, Ahimelek son of Abiathar and the heads of families of the priests and of the Levites—one family being taken from Eleazar and then one from Ithamar. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_7">  <sup>7</sup>The first lot fell to Jehoiarib, <br/>  the second to Jedaiah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_8">  <sup>8</sup>the third to Harim, <br/>  the fourth to Seorim, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_9">  <sup>9</sup>the fifth to Malkijah, <br/>  the sixth to Mijamin, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_10">  <sup>10</sup>the seventh to Hakkoz, <br/>  the eighth to Abijah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_11">  <sup>11</sup>the ninth to Jeshua, <br/>  the tenth to Shekaniah, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_12">  <sup>12</sup>the eleventh to Eliashib, <br/>  the twelfth to Jakim, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_13">  <sup>13</sup>the thirteenth to Huppah, <br/>  the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_14">  <sup>14</sup>the fifteenth to Bilgah, <br/>  the sixteenth to Immer, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_15">  <sup>15</sup>the seventeenth to Hezir, <br/>  the eighteenth to Happizzez, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_16">  <sup>16</sup>the nineteenth to Pethahiah, <br/>  the twentieth to Jehezkel, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_17">  <sup>17</sup>the twenty-first to Jakin, <br/>  the twenty-second to Gamul, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_18">  <sup>18</sup>the twenty-third to Delaiah <br/>  and the twenty-fourth to Maaziah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_19"> <sup>19</sup>This was their appointed order of ministering when they entered the temple of the Lord, according to the regulations prescribed for them by their ancestor Aaron, as the Lord, the God of Israel, had commanded him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Rest of the Levites </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_24_20"><sup>20</sup>As for the rest of the descendants of Levi: <br/>  from the sons of Amram: Shubael; <br/>    from the sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_21">    <sup>21</sup>As for Rehabiah, from his sons: <br/>    Ishiah was the first. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_22">  <sup>22</sup>From the Izharites: Shelomoth; <br/>    from the sons of Shelomoth: Jahath. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_23">  <sup>23</sup>The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Two Hebrew manuscripts and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 23:19); most Hebrew manuscripts The sons of Jeriah:">⚓</a> Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third and Jekameam the fourth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_24">  <sup>24</sup>The son of Uzziel: Micah; <br/>    from the sons of Micah: Shamir. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_25">    <sup>25</sup>The brother of Micah: Ishiah; <br/>    from the sons of Ishiah: Zechariah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_26">  <sup>26</sup>The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. <br/>    The son of Jaaziah: Beno. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_27">  <sup>27</sup>The sons of Merari: <br/>    from Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zakkur and Ibri. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_28">  <sup>28</sup>From Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_29">  <sup>29</sup>From Kish: the son of Kish: <br/>    Jerahmeel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_30">  <sup>30</sup>And the sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth. <br/> These were the Levites, according to their families. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_24_31"><sup>31</sup>They also cast lots, just as their relatives the descendants of Aaron did, in the presence of King David and of Zadok, Ahimelek, and the heads of families of the priests and of the Levites. The families of the oldest brother were treated the same as those of the youngest. <br/></span>
