---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1><h3>The Musicians </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_25_1"> <sup>1</sup>David, together with the commanders of the army, set apart some of the sons of Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun for the ministry of prophesying, accompanied by harps, lyres and cymbals. Here is the list of the men who performed this service: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_25_2">  <sup>2</sup>From the sons of Asaph: <br/>    Zakkur, Joseph, Nethaniah and Asarelah. The sons of Asaph were under the supervision of Asaph, who prophesied under the king’s supervision. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_25_3">  <sup>3</sup>As for Jeduthun, from his sons: <br/>    Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="One Hebrew manuscript and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also verse 17); most Hebrew manuscripts do not have Shimei.">⚓</a> Hashabiah and Mattithiah, six in all, under the supervision of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied, using the harp in thanking and praising the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_25_4">  <sup>4</sup>As for Heman, from his sons: <br/>    Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shubael and Jerimoth; Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti and Romamti-Ezer; Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir and Mahazioth. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_25_5"><sup>5</sup>(All these were sons of Heman the king’s seer. They were given him through the promises of God to exalt him. God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_25_6"> <sup>6</sup>All these men were under the supervision of their father for the music of the temple of the Lord, with cymbals, lyres and harps, for the ministry at the house of God. <br/> Asaph, Jeduthun and Heman were under the supervision of the king. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_25_7"><sup>7</sup>Along with their relatives—all of them trained and skilled in music for the Lord—they numbered 288. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_25_8"><sup>8</sup>Young and old alike, teacher as well as student, cast lots for their duties. <br/></span>
