---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\27.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>27</h1><h3>Army Divisions </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_27_1"> <sup>1</sup>This is the list of the Israelites—heads of families, commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and their officers, who served the king in all that concerned the army divisions that were on duty month by month throughout the year. Each division consisted of 24,000 men. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_2">  <sup>2</sup>In charge of the first division, for the first month, was Jashobeam son of Zabdiel. There were 24,000 men in his division. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_3"><sup>3</sup>He was a descendant of Perez and chief of all the army officers for the first month. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_4">  <sup>4</sup>In charge of the division for the second month was Dodai the Ahohite; Mikloth was the leader of his division. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_5">  <sup>5</sup>The third army commander, for the third month, was Benaiah son of Jehoiada the priest. He was chief and there were 24,000 men in his division. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_6"><sup>6</sup>This was the Benaiah who was a mighty warrior among the Thirty and was over the Thirty. His son Ammizabad was in charge of his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_7">  <sup>7</sup>The fourth, for the fourth month, was Asahel the brother of Joab; his son Zebadiah was his successor. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_8">  <sup>8</sup>The fifth, for the fifth month, was the commander Shamhuth the Izrahite. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_9">  <sup>9</sup>The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_10">  <sup>10</sup>The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite, an Ephraimite. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_11">  <sup>11</sup>The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbekai the Hushathite, a Zerahite. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_12">  <sup>12</sup>The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer the Anathothite, a Benjamite. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_13">  <sup>13</sup>The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai the Netophathite, a Zerahite. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_14">  <sup>14</sup>The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah the Pirathonite, an Ephraimite. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_15">  <sup>15</sup>The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai the Netophathite, from the family of Othniel. There were 24,000 men in his division. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Leaders of the Tribes </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_27_16"> <sup>16</sup>The leaders of the tribes of Israel: <br/>  over the Reubenites: Eliezer son of Zikri; <br/>  over the Simeonites: Shephatiah son of Maakah; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_17">  <sup>17</sup>over Levi: Hashabiah son of Kemuel; <br/>  over Aaron: Zadok; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_18">  <sup>18</sup>over Judah: Elihu, a brother of David; <br/>  over Issachar: Omri son of Michael; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_19">  <sup>19</sup>over Zebulun: Ishmaiah son of Obadiah; <br/>  over Naphtali: Jerimoth son of Azriel; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_20">  <sup>20</sup>over the Ephraimites: Hoshea son of Azaziah; <br/>  over half the tribe of Manasseh: Joel son of Pedaiah; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_21">  <sup>21</sup>over the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Iddo son of Zechariah; <br/>  over Benjamin: Jaasiel son of Abner; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_22">  <sup>22</sup>over Dan: Azarel son of Jeroham. <br/> These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_23"> <sup>23</sup>David did not take the number of the men twenty years old or less, because the Lord had promised to make Israel as numerous as the stars in the sky. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_24"><sup>24</sup>Joab son of Zeruiah began to count the men but did not finish. God’s wrath came on Israel on account of this numbering, and the number was not entered in the book<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Septuagint; Hebrew number">⚓</a> of the annals of King David. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The King’s Overseers </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_27_25"> <sup>25</sup>Azmaveth son of Adiel was in charge of the royal storehouses. <br/> Jonathan son of Uzziah was in charge of the storehouses in the outlying districts, in the towns, the villages and the watchtowers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_26"> <sup>26</sup>Ezri son of Kelub was in charge of the workers who farmed the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_27"> <sup>27</sup>Shimei the Ramathite was in charge of the vineyards. <br/> Zabdi the Shiphmite was in charge of the produce of the vineyards for the wine vats. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_28"> <sup>28</sup>Baal-Hanan the Gederite was in charge of the olive and sycamore-fig trees in the western foothills. <br/> Joash was in charge of the supplies of olive oil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_29"> <sup>29</sup>Shitrai the Sharonite was in charge of the herds grazing in Sharon. <br/> Shaphat son of Adlai was in charge of the herds in the valleys. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_30"> <sup>30</sup>Obil the Ishmaelite was in charge of the camels. <br/> Jehdeiah the Meronothite was in charge of the donkeys. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_31"> <sup>31</sup>Jaziz the Hagrite was in charge of the flocks. <br/> All these were the officials in charge of King David’s property. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_32"> <sup>32</sup>Jonathan, David’s uncle, was a counselor, a man of insight and a scribe. Jehiel son of Hakmoni took care of the king’s sons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_33"> <sup>33</sup>Ahithophel was the king’s counselor. <br/> Hushai the Arkite was the king’s confidant. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_27_34"><sup>34</sup>Ahithophel was succeeded by Jehoiada son of Benaiah and by Abiathar. <br/> Joab was the commander of the royal army. <br/></span>
