---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: I Chronicles 
bookNumber: 13
audio: \Audio\NIV\1su\29.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>29</h1><h3>Gifts for Building the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_29_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then King David said to the whole assembly: “My son Solomon, the one whom God has chosen, is young and inexperienced. The task is great, because this palatial structure is not for man but for the Lord God. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_2"><sup>2</sup>With all my resources I have provided for the temple of my God—gold for the gold work, silver for the silver, bronze for the bronze, iron for the iron and wood for the wood, as well as onyx for the settings, turquoise,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.">⚓</a> stones of various colors, and all kinds of fine stone and marble—all of these in large quantities. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_3"><sup>3</sup>Besides, in my devotion to the temple of my God I now give my personal treasures of gold and silver for the temple of my God, over and above everything I have provided for this holy temple: </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_4"><sup>4</sup>three thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 110 tons or about 100 metric tons">⚓</a> of gold (gold of Ophir) and seven thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 260 tons or about 235 metric tons">⚓</a> of refined silver, for the overlaying of the walls of the buildings, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_5"><sup>5</sup>for the gold work and the silver work, and for all the work to be done by the craftsmen. Now, who is willing to consecrate themselves to the Lord today?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then the leaders of families, the officers of the tribes of Israel, the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and the officials in charge of the king’s work gave willingly. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_7"><sup>7</sup>They gave toward the work on the temple of God five thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 190 tons or about 170 metric tons">⚓</a> and ten thousand darics<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 185 pounds or about 84 kilograms">⚓</a> of gold, ten thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 380 tons or about 340 metric tons">⚓</a> of silver, eighteen thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 675 tons or about 610 metric tons">⚓</a> of bronze and a hundred thousand talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3,800 tons or about 3,400 metric tons">⚓</a> of iron. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_8"><sup>8</sup>Anyone who had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the temple of the Lord in the custody of Jehiel the Gershonite. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_9"><sup>9</sup>The people rejoiced at the willing response of their leaders, for they had given freely and wholeheartedly to the Lord. David the king also rejoiced greatly. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>David’s Prayer </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_29_10"> <sup>10</sup>David praised the Lord in the presence of the whole assembly, saying, <br/>  “Praise be to you, Lord, <br/>   the God of our father Israel, <br/>   from everlasting to everlasting. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_11">  <sup>11</sup>Yours, Lord, is the greatness and the power <br/>   and the glory and the majesty and the splendor, <br/>   for everything in heaven and earth is yours. <br/>  Yours, Lord, is the kingdom; <br/>   you are exalted as head over all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_12">  <sup>12</sup>Wealth and honor come from you; <br/>   you are the ruler of all things. <br/>  In your hands are strength and power <br/>   to exalt and give strength to all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_13">  <sup>13</sup>Now, our God, we give you thanks, <br/>   and praise your glorious name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_14"> <sup>14</sup>“But who am I, and who are my people, that we should be able to give as generously as this? Everything comes from you, and we have given you only what comes from your hand. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_15"><sup>15</sup>We are foreigners and strangers in your sight, as were all our ancestors. Our days on earth are like a shadow, without hope. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_16"><sup>16</sup>Lord our God, all this abundance that we have provided for building you a temple for your Holy Name comes from your hand, and all of it belongs to you. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_17"><sup>17</sup>I know, my God, that you test the heart and are pleased with integrity. All these things I have given willingly and with honest intent. And now I have seen with joy how willingly your people who are here have given to you. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_18"><sup>18</sup>Lord, the God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac and Israel, keep these desires and thoughts in the hearts of your people forever, and keep their hearts loyal to you. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_19"><sup>19</sup>And give my son Solomon the wholehearted devotion to keep your commands, statutes and decrees and to do everything to build the palatial structure for which I have provided.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then David said to the whole assembly, “Praise the Lord your God.” So they all praised the Lord, the God of their fathers; they bowed down, prostrating themselves before the Lord and the king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Solomon Acknowledged as King </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_29_21"> <sup>21</sup>The next day they made sacrifices to the Lord and presented burnt offerings to him: a thousand bulls, a thousand rams and a thousand male lambs, together with their drink offerings, and other sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_22"><sup>22</sup>They ate and drank with great joy in the presence of the Lord that day. <br/> Then they acknowledged Solomon son of David as king a second time, anointing him before the Lord to be ruler and Zadok to be priest. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_23"><sup>23</sup>So Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as king in place of his father David. He prospered and all Israel obeyed him. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_24"><sup>24</sup>All the officers and warriors, as well as all of King David’s sons, pledged their submission to King Solomon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_25"> <sup>25</sup>The Lord highly exalted Solomon in the sight of all Israel and bestowed on him royal splendor such as no king over Israel ever had before. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Death of David </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1su_29_26"> <sup>26</sup>David son of Jesse was king over all Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_27"><sup>27</sup>He ruled over Israel forty years—seven in Hebron and thirty-three in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_28"><sup>28</sup>He died at a good old age, having enjoyed long life, wealth and honor. His son Solomon succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_29"> <sup>29</sup>As for the events of King David’s reign, from beginning to end, they are written in the records of Samuel the seer, the records of Nathan the prophet and the records of Gad the seer, </span>
<span class="verse 1su_29_30"><sup>30</sup>together with the details of his reign and power, and the circumstances that surrounded him and Israel and the kingdoms of all the other lands. <br/></span>
