---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse ro_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle and set apart for the gospel of God— </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_2"><sup>2</sup>the gospel he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_3"><sup>3</sup>regarding his Son, who as to his earthly life<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or who according to the flesh">⚓</a> was a descendant of David, </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_4"><sup>4</sup>and who through the Spirit of holiness was appointed the Son of God in power<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or was declared with power to be the Son of God">⚓</a> by his resurrection from the dead: Jesus Christ our Lord. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_5"><sup>5</sup>Through him we received grace and apostleship to call all the Gentiles to the obedience that comes from<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or that is">⚓</a> faith for his name’s sake. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_6"><sup>6</sup>And you also are among those Gentiles who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_1_7"> <sup>7</sup>To all in Rome who are loved by God and called to be his holy people: <br/> Grace and peace to you from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Longing to Visit Rome </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is being reported all over the world. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_9"><sup>9</sup>God, whom I serve in my spirit in preaching the gospel of his Son, is my witness how constantly I remember you </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_10"><sup>10</sup>in my prayers at all times; and I pray that now at last by God’s will the way may be opened for me to come to you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>I long to see you so that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to make you strong— </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_12"><sup>12</sup>that is, that you and I may be mutually encouraged by each other’s faith. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_13"><sup>13</sup>I do not want you to be unaware, brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in 7:1, 4; 8:12, 29; 10:1; 11:25; 12:1; 15:14, 30; 16:14, 17.">⚓</a> that I planned many times to come to you (but have been prevented from doing so until now) in order that I might have a harvest among you, just as I have had among the other Gentiles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_1_14"> <sup>14</sup>I am obligated both to Greeks and non-Greeks, both to the wise and the foolish. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_15"><sup>15</sup>That is why I am so eager to preach the gospel also to you who are in Rome. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>For I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God that brings salvation to everyone who believes: first to the Jew, then to the Gentile. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_17"><sup>17</sup>For in the gospel the righteousness of God is revealed—a righteousness that is by faith from first to last,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or is from faith to faith">⚓</a> just as it is written: “The righteous will live by faith.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hab. 2:4">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>God’s Wrath Against Sinful Humanity </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all the godlessness and wickedness of people, who suppress the truth by their wickedness, </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_19"><sup>19</sup>since what may be known about God is plain to them, because God has made it plain to them. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_20"><sup>20</sup>For since the creation of the world God’s invisible qualities—his eternal power and divine nature—have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been made, so that people are without excuse. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_1_21"> <sup>21</sup>For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_22"><sup>22</sup>Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_23"><sup>23</sup>and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images made to look like a mortal human being and birds and animals and reptiles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_1_24"> <sup>24</sup>Therefore God gave them over in the sinful desires of their hearts to sexual impurity for the degrading of their bodies with one another. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_25"><sup>25</sup>They exchanged the truth about God for a lie, and worshiped and served created things rather than the Creator—who is forever praised. Amen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_1_26"> <sup>26</sup>Because of this, God gave them over to shameful lusts. Even their women exchanged natural sexual relations for unnatural ones. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_27"><sup>27</sup>In the same way the men also abandoned natural relations with women and were inflamed with lust for one another. Men committed shameful acts with other men, and received in themselves the due penalty for their error. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_1_28"> <sup>28</sup>Furthermore, just as they did not think it worthwhile to retain the knowledge of God, so God gave them over to a depraved mind, so that they do what ought not to be done. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_29"><sup>29</sup>They have become filled with every kind of wickedness, evil, greed and depravity. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit and malice. They are gossips, </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_30"><sup>30</sup>slanderers, God-haters, insolent, arrogant and boastful; they invent ways of doing evil; they disobey their parents; </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_31"><sup>31</sup>they have no understanding, no fidelity, no love, no mercy. </span>
<span class="verse ro_1_32"><sup>32</sup>Although they know God’s righteous decree that those who do such things deserve death, they not only continue to do these very things but also approve of those who practice them. <br/></span>
