---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>God’s Righteous Judgment </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>You, therefore, have no excuse, you who pass judgment on someone else, for at whatever point you judge another, you are condemning yourself, because you who pass judgment do the same things. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_2"><sup>2</sup>Now we know that God’s judgment against those who do such things is based on truth. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_3"><sup>3</sup>So when you, a mere human being, pass judgment on them and yet do the same things, do you think you will escape God’s judgment? </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_4"><sup>4</sup>Or do you show contempt for the riches of his kindness, forbearance and patience, not realizing that God’s kindness is intended to lead you to repentance? <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>But because of your stubbornness and your unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath against yourself for the day of God’s wrath, when his righteous judgment will be revealed. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_6"><sup>6</sup>God “will repay each person according to what they have done.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 62:12; Prov. 24:12">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ro_2_7"><sup>7</sup>To those who by persistence in doing good seek glory, honor and immortality, he will give eternal life. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_8"><sup>8</sup>But for those who are self-seeking and who reject the truth and follow evil, there will be wrath and anger. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_9"><sup>9</sup>There will be trouble and distress for every human being who does evil: first for the Jew, then for the Gentile; </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_10"><sup>10</sup>but glory, honor and peace for everyone who does good: first for the Jew, then for the Gentile. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_11"><sup>11</sup>For God does not show favoritism. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_2_12"> <sup>12</sup>All who sin apart from the law will also perish apart from the law, and all who sin under the law will be judged by the law. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_13"><sup>13</sup>For it is not those who hear the law who are righteous in God’s sight, but it is those who obey the law who will be declared righteous. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_14"><sup>14</sup>(Indeed, when Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature things required by the law, they are a law for themselves, even though they do not have the law. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_15"><sup>15</sup>They show that the requirements of the law are written on their hearts, their consciences also bearing witness, and their thoughts sometimes accusing them and at other times even defending them.) </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_16"><sup>16</sup>This will take place on the day when God judges people’s secrets through Jesus Christ, as my gospel declares. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Jews and the Law </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>Now you, if you call yourself a Jew; if you rely on the law and boast in God; </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_18"><sup>18</sup>if you know his will and approve of what is superior because you are instructed by the law; </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_19"><sup>19</sup>if you are convinced that you are a guide for the blind, a light for those who are in the dark, </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_20"><sup>20</sup>an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of little children, because you have in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth— </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_21"><sup>21</sup>you, then, who teach others, do you not teach yourself? You who preach against stealing, do you steal? </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_22"><sup>22</sup>You who say that people should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_23"><sup>23</sup>You who boast in the law, do you dishonor God by breaking the law? </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_24"><sup>24</sup>As it is written: “God’s name is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 52:5 (see Septuagint); Ezek. 36:20,22">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_2_25"> <sup>25</sup>Circumcision has value if you observe the law, but if you break the law, you have become as though you had not been circumcised. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_26"><sup>26</sup>So then, if those who are not circumcised keep the law’s requirements, will they not be regarded as though they were circumcised? </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_27"><sup>27</sup>The one who is not circumcised physically and yet obeys the law will condemn you who, even though you have the<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or who, by means of a">⚓</a> written code and circumcision, are a lawbreaker. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_2_28"> <sup>28</sup>A person is not a Jew who is one only outwardly, nor is circumcision merely outward and physical. </span>
<span class="verse ro_2_29"><sup>29</sup>No, a person is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is circumcision of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the written code. Such a person’s praise is not from other people, but from God. <br/></span>
