---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Peace and Hope </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many manuscripts let us">⚓</a> have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_2"><sup>2</sup>through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand. And we<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or let us">⚓</a> boast in the hope of the glory of God. </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_3"><sup>3</sup>Not only so, but we<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or let us">⚓</a> also glory in our sufferings, because we know that suffering produces perseverance; </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_4"><sup>4</sup>perseverance, character; and character, hope. </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_5"><sup>5</sup>And hope does not put us to shame, because God’s love has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_5_6"> <sup>6</sup>You see, at just the right time, when we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_7"><sup>7</sup>Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous person, though for a good person someone might possibly dare to die. </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_8"><sup>8</sup>But God demonstrates his own love for us in this: While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_5_9"> <sup>9</sup>Since we have now been justified by his blood, how much more shall we be saved from God’s wrath through him! </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_10"><sup>10</sup>For if, while we were God’s enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his Son, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through his life! </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_11"><sup>11</sup>Not only is this so, but we also boast in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Death Through Adam, Life Through Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_5_12"> <sup>12</sup>Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, and in this way death came to all people, because all sinned— <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>To be sure, sin was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not charged against anyone’s account where there is no law. </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_14"><sup>14</sup>Nevertheless, death reigned from the time of Adam to the time of Moses, even over those who did not sin by breaking a command, as did Adam, who is a pattern of the one to come. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_5_15"> <sup>15</sup>But the gift is not like the trespass. For if the many died by the trespass of the one man, how much more did God’s grace and the gift that came by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, overflow to the many! </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_16"><sup>16</sup>Nor can the gift of God be compared with the result of one man’s sin: The judgment followed one sin and brought condemnation, but the gift followed many trespasses and brought justification. </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_17"><sup>17</sup>For if, by the trespass of the one man, death reigned through that one man, how much more will those who receive God’s abundant provision of grace and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ! <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_5_18"> <sup>18</sup>Consequently, just as one trespass resulted in condemnation for all people, so also one righteous act resulted in justification and life for all people. </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_19"><sup>19</sup>For just as through the disobedience of the one man the many were made sinners, so also through the obedience of the one man the many will be made righteous. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_5_20"> <sup>20</sup>The law was brought in so that the trespass might increase. But where sin increased, grace increased all the more, </span>
<span class="verse ro_5_21"><sup>21</sup>so that, just as sin reigned in death, so also grace might reign through righteousness to bring eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. <br/></span>
