---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Dead to Sin, Alive in Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>What shall we say, then? Shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase? </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_2"><sup>2</sup>By no means! We are those who have died to sin; how can we live in it any longer? </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_3"><sup>3</sup>Or don’t you know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_4"><sup>4</sup>We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too may live a new life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_6_5"> <sup>5</sup>For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we will certainly also be united with him in a resurrection like his. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_6"><sup>6</sup>For we know that our old self was crucified with him so that the body ruled by sin might be done away with,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or be rendered powerless">⚓</a> that we should no longer be slaves to sin— </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_7"><sup>7</sup>because anyone who has died has been set free from sin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_9"><sup>9</sup>For we know that since Christ was raised from the dead, he cannot die again; death no longer has mastery over him. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_10"><sup>10</sup>The death he died, he died to sin once for all; but the life he lives, he lives to God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>In the same way, count yourselves dead to sin but alive to God in Christ Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_12"><sup>12</sup>Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its evil desires. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_13"><sup>13</sup>Do not offer any part of yourself to sin as an instrument of wickedness, but rather offer yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life; and offer every part of yourself to him as an instrument of righteousness. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_14"><sup>14</sup>For sin shall no longer be your master, because you are not under the law, but under grace. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Slaves to Righteousness </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>What then? Shall we sin because we are not under the law but under grace? By no means! </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_16"><sup>16</sup>Don’t you know that when you offer yourselves to someone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one you obey—whether you are slaves to sin, which leads to death, or to obedience, which leads to righteousness? </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_17"><sup>17</sup>But thanks be to God that, though you used to be slaves to sin, you have come to obey from your heart the pattern of teaching that has now claimed your allegiance. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_18"><sup>18</sup>You have been set free from sin and have become slaves to righteousness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_6_19"> <sup>19</sup>I am using an example from everyday life because of your human limitations. Just as you used to offer yourselves as slaves to impurity and to ever-increasing wickedness, so now offer yourselves as slaves to righteousness leading to holiness. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_20"><sup>20</sup>When you were slaves to sin, you were free from the control of righteousness. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_21"><sup>21</sup>What benefit did you reap at that time from the things you are now ashamed of? Those things result in death! </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_22"><sup>22</sup>But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the benefit you reap leads to holiness, and the result is eternal life. </span>
<span class="verse ro_6_23"><sup>23</sup>For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or through">⚓</a> Christ Jesus our Lord. <br/></span>
