---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\7.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>7</h1><h3>Released From the Law, Bound to Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_7_1"> <sup>1</sup>Do you not know, brothers and sisters—for I am speaking to those who know the law—that the law has authority over someone only as long as that person lives? </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_2"><sup>2</sup>For example, by law a married woman is bound to her husband as long as he is alive, but if her husband dies, she is released from the law that binds her to him. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_3"><sup>3</sup>So then, if she has sexual relations with another man while her husband is still alive, she is called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is released from that law and is not an adulteress if she marries another man. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_7_4"> <sup>4</sup>So, my brothers and sisters, you also died to the law through the body of Christ, that you might belong to another, to him who was raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit for God. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_5"><sup>5</sup>For when we were in the realm of the flesh,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In contexts like this, the Greek word for flesh (sarx ) refers to the sinful state of human beings, often presented as a power in opposition to the Spirit.">⚓</a> the sinful passions aroused by the law were at work in us, so that we bore fruit for death. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_6"><sup>6</sup>But now, by dying to what once bound us, we have been released from the law so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit, and not in the old way of the written code. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Law and Sin </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_7_7"> <sup>7</sup>What shall we say, then? Is the law sinful? Certainly not! Nevertheless, I would not have known what sin was had it not been for the law. For I would not have known what coveting really was if the law had not said, “You shall not covet.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 20:17; Deut. 5:21">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ro_7_8"><sup>8</sup>But sin, seizing the opportunity afforded by the commandment, produced in me every kind of coveting. For apart from the law, sin was dead. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_9"><sup>9</sup>Once I was alive apart from the law; but when the commandment came, sin sprang to life and I died. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_10"><sup>10</sup>I found that the very commandment that was intended to bring life actually brought death. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_11"><sup>11</sup>For sin, seizing the opportunity afforded by the commandment, deceived me, and through the commandment put me to death. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_12"><sup>12</sup>So then, the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, righteous and good. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_7_13"> <sup>13</sup>Did that which is good, then, become death to me? By no means! Nevertheless, in order that sin might be recognized as sin, it used what is good to bring about my death, so that through the commandment sin might become utterly sinful. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_7_14"> <sup>14</sup>We know that the law is spiritual; but I am unspiritual, sold as a slave to sin. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_15"><sup>15</sup>I do not understand what I do. For what I want to do I do not do, but what I hate I do. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_16"><sup>16</sup>And if I do what I do not want to do, I agree that the law is good. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_17"><sup>17</sup>As it is, it is no longer I myself who do it, but it is sin living in me. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_18"><sup>18</sup>For I know that good itself does not dwell in me, that is, in my sinful nature.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or my flesh">⚓</a> For I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_19"><sup>19</sup>For I do not do the good I want to do, but the evil I do not want to do—this I keep on doing. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_20"><sup>20</sup>Now if I do what I do not want to do, it is no longer I who do it, but it is sin living in me that does it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_7_21"> <sup>21</sup>So I find this law at work: Although I want to do good, evil is right there with me. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_22"><sup>22</sup>For in my inner being I delight in God’s law; </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_23"><sup>23</sup>but I see another law at work in me, waging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin at work within me. </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_24"><sup>24</sup>What a wretched man I am! Who will rescue me from this body that is subject to death? </span>
<span class="verse ro_7_25"><sup>25</sup>Thanks be to God, who delivers me through Jesus Christ our Lord! <br/> So then, I myself in my mind am a slave to God’s law, but in my sinful nature<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in the flesh">⚓</a> a slave to the law of sin. <br/></span>
