---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>Life Through the Spirit </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_2"><sup>2</sup>because through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit who gives life has set you<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek is singular; some manuscripts me">⚓</a> free from the law of sin and death. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_3"><sup>3</sup>For what the law was powerless to do because it was weakened by the flesh,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In contexts like this, the Greek word for flesh (sarx ) refers to the sinful state of human beings, often presented as a power in opposition to the Spirit; also in verses 4-13.">⚓</a> God did by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh to be a sin offering.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or flesh, for sin">⚓</a> And so he condemned sin in the flesh, </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_4"><sup>4</sup>in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fully met in us, who do not live according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_8_5"> <sup>5</sup>Those who live according to the flesh have their minds set on what the flesh desires; but those who live in accordance with the Spirit have their minds set on what the Spirit desires. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_6"><sup>6</sup>The mind governed by the flesh is death, but the mind governed by the Spirit is life and peace. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_7"><sup>7</sup>The mind governed by the flesh is hostile to God; it does not submit to God’s law, nor can it do so. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_8"><sup>8</sup>Those who are in the realm of the flesh cannot please God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>You, however, are not in the realm of the flesh but are in the realm of the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God lives in you. And if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, they do not belong to Christ. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_10"><sup>10</sup>But if Christ is in you, then even though your body is subject to death because of sin, the Spirit gives life<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or you, your body is dead because of sin, yet your spirit is alive">⚓</a> because of righteousness. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_11"><sup>11</sup>And if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies because of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts bodies through">⚓</a> his Spirit who lives in you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_8_12"> <sup>12</sup>Therefore, brothers and sisters, we have an obligation—but it is not to the flesh, to live according to it. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_13"><sup>13</sup>For if you live according to the flesh, you will die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_8_14"> <sup>14</sup>For those who are led by the Spirit of God are the children of God. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_15"><sup>15</sup>The Spirit you received does not make you slaves, so that you live in fear again; rather, the Spirit you received brought about your adoption to sonship.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for adoption to sonship is a term referring to the full legal standing of an adopted male heir in Roman culture; also in verse 23.">⚓</a> And by him we cry, <em>“Abba,</em><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Aramaic for father">⚓</a> Father.” </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_16"><sup>16</sup>The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are God’s children. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_17"><sup>17</sup>Now if we are children, then we are heirs—heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings in order that we may also share in his glory. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Present Suffering and Future Glory </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_8_18"> <sup>18</sup>I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_19"><sup>19</sup>For the creation waits in eager expectation for the children of God to be revealed. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_20"><sup>20</sup>For the creation was subjected to frustration, not by its own choice, but by the will of the one who subjected it, in hope </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_21"><sup>21</sup>that<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or subjected it in hope. 21For">⚓</a> the creation itself will be liberated from its bondage to decay and brought into the freedom and glory of the children of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_8_22"> <sup>22</sup>We know that the whole creation has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_23"><sup>23</sup>Not only so, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption to sonship, the redemption of our bodies. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_24"><sup>24</sup>For in this hope we were saved. But hope that is seen is no hope at all. Who hopes for what they already have? </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_25"><sup>25</sup>But if we hope for what we do not yet have, we wait for it patiently. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_8_26"> <sup>26</sup>In the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. We do not know what we ought to pray for, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us through wordless groans. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_27"><sup>27</sup>And he who searches our hearts knows the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for God’s people in accordance with the will of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_8_28"> <sup>28</sup>And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or that all things work together for good to those who love God, who ; or that in all things God works together with those who love him to bring about what is good—with those who">⚓</a> have been called according to his purpose. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_29"><sup>29</sup>For those God foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_30"><sup>30</sup>And those he predestined, he also called; those he called, he also justified; those he justified, he also glorified. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>More Than Conquerors </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_8_31"> <sup>31</sup>What, then, shall we say in response to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_32"><sup>32</sup>He who did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for us all—how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_33"><sup>33</sup>Who will bring any charge against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_34"><sup>34</sup>Who then is the one who condemns? No one. Christ Jesus who died—more than that, who was raised to life—is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_35"><sup>35</sup>Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_36"><sup>36</sup>As it is written: <br/>  “For your sake we face death all day long; <br/>   we are considered as sheep to be slaughtered.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 44:22">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_8_37"><sup>37</sup>No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_38"><sup>38</sup>For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or nor heavenly rulers">⚓</a> neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, </span>
<span class="verse ro_8_39"><sup>39</sup>neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. <br/></span>
