---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>The Remnant of Israel </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>I ask then: Did God reject his people? By no means! I am an Israelite myself, a descendant of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_2"><sup>2</sup>God did not reject his people, whom he foreknew. Don’t you know what Scripture says in the passage about Elijah—how he appealed to God against Israel: </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_3"><sup>3</sup>“Lord, they have killed your prophets and torn down your altars; I am the only one left, and they are trying to kill me”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kings 19:10,14">⚓</a> ? </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_4"><sup>4</sup>And what was God’s answer to him? “I have reserved for myself seven thousand who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="1 Kings 19:18">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_5"><sup>5</sup>So too, at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_6"><sup>6</sup>And if by grace, then it cannot be based on works; if it were, grace would no longer be grace. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_7"> <sup>7</sup>What then? What the people of Israel sought so earnestly they did not obtain. The elect among them did, but the others were hardened, </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_8"><sup>8</sup>as it is written: <br/>  “God gave them a spirit of stupor, <br/>   eyes that could not see <br/>   and ears that could not hear, <br/>  to this very day.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 29:4; Isaiah 29:10">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_9"><sup>9</sup>And David says: <br/>  “May their table become a snare and a trap, <br/>   a stumbling block and a retribution for them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_10">  <sup>10</sup>May their eyes be darkened so they cannot see, <br/>   and their backs be bent forever.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 69:22,23">⚓</a><br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Ingrafted Branches </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_11_11"> <sup>11</sup>Again I ask: Did they stumble so as to fall beyond recovery? Not at all! Rather, because of their transgression, salvation has come to the Gentiles to make Israel envious. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_12"><sup>12</sup>But if their transgression means riches for the world, and their loss means riches for the Gentiles, how much greater riches will their full inclusion bring! <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>I am talking to you Gentiles. Inasmuch as I am the apostle to the Gentiles, I take pride in my ministry </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_14"><sup>14</sup>in the hope that I may somehow arouse my own people to envy and save some of them. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_15"><sup>15</sup>For if their rejection brought reconciliation to the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead? </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_16"><sup>16</sup>If the part of the dough offered as firstfruits is holy, then the whole batch is holy; if the root is holy, so are the branches. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_17"> <sup>17</sup>If some of the branches have been broken off, and you, though a wild olive shoot, have been grafted in among the others and now share in the nourishing sap from the olive root, </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_18"><sup>18</sup>do not consider yourself to be superior to those other branches. If you do, consider this: You do not support the root, but the root supports you. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_19"><sup>19</sup>You will say then, “Branches were broken off so that I could be grafted in.” </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_20"><sup>20</sup>Granted. But they were broken off because of unbelief, and you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but tremble. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_21"><sup>21</sup>For if God did not spare the natural branches, he will not spare you either. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>Consider therefore the kindness and sternness of God: sternness to those who fell, but kindness to you, provided that you continue in his kindness. Otherwise, you also will be cut off. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_23"><sup>23</sup>And if they do not persist in unbelief, they will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_24"><sup>24</sup>After all, if you were cut out of an olive tree that is wild by nature, and contrary to nature were grafted into a cultivated olive tree, how much more readily will these, the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree! <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>All Israel Will Be Saved </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_11_25"> <sup>25</sup>I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers and sisters, so that you may not be conceited: Israel has experienced a hardening in part until the full number of the Gentiles has come in, </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_26"><sup>26</sup>and in this way<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and so">⚓</a> all Israel will be saved. As it is written: <br/>  “The deliverer will come from Zion; <br/>   he will turn godlessness away from Jacob. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_27">  <sup>27</sup>And this is<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or will be">⚓</a> my covenant with them <br/>   when I take away their sins.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 59:20,21; 27:9 (see Septuagint); Jer. 31:33,34">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_28"> <sup>28</sup>As far as the gospel is concerned, they are enemies for your sake; but as far as election is concerned, they are loved on account of the patriarchs, </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_29"><sup>29</sup>for God’s gifts and his call are irrevocable. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_30"><sup>30</sup>Just as you who were at one time disobedient to God have now received mercy as a result of their disobedience, </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_31"><sup>31</sup>so they too have now become disobedient in order that they too may now<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts do not have now.">⚓</a> receive mercy as a result of God’s mercy to you. </span>
<span class="verse ro_11_32"><sup>32</sup>For God has bound everyone over to disobedience so that he may have mercy on them all. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Doxology </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_11_33">  <sup>33</sup>Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or riches and the wisdom and the">⚓</a> knowledge of God! <br/>   How unsearchable his judgments, <br/>   and his paths beyond tracing out! <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_34">  <sup>34</sup>“Who has known the mind of the Lord? <br/>   Or who has been his counselor?”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 40:13">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_35">  <sup>35</sup>“Who has ever given to God, <br/>   that God should repay them?”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Job 41:11">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_11_36">  <sup>36</sup>For from him and through him and for him are all things. <br/>   To him be the glory forever! Amen. <br/></span>
