---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Submission to Governing Authorities </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>Let everyone be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established. The authorities that exist have been established by God. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_2"><sup>2</sup>Consequently, whoever rebels against the authority is rebelling against what God has instituted, and those who do so will bring judgment on themselves. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_3"><sup>3</sup>For rulers hold no terror for those who do right, but for those who do wrong. Do you want to be free from fear of the one in authority? Then do what is right and you will be commended. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_4"><sup>4</sup>For the one in authority is God’s servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for rulers do not bear the sword for no reason. They are God’s servants, agents of wrath to bring punishment on the wrongdoer. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_5"><sup>5</sup>Therefore, it is necessary to submit to the authorities, not only because of possible punishment but also as a matter of conscience. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_13_6"> <sup>6</sup>This is also why you pay taxes, for the authorities are God’s servants, who give their full time to governing. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_7"><sup>7</sup>Give to everyone what you owe them: If you owe taxes, pay taxes; if revenue, then revenue; if respect, then respect; if honor, then honor. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Love Fulfills the Law </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_13_8"> <sup>8</sup>Let no debt remain outstanding, except the continuing debt to love one another, for whoever loves others has fulfilled the law. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_9"><sup>9</sup>The commandments, “You shall not commit adultery,” “You shall not murder,” “You shall not steal,” “You shall not covet,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Exodus 20:13-15,17; Deut. 5:17-19,21">⚓</a> and whatever other command there may be, are summed up in this one command: “Love your neighbor as yourself.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 19:18">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ro_13_10"><sup>10</sup>Love does no harm to a neighbor. Therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Day Is Near </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_13_11"> <sup>11</sup>And do this, understanding the present time: The hour has already come for you to wake up from your slumber, because our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_12"><sup>12</sup>The night is nearly over; the day is almost here. So let us put aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_13"><sup>13</sup>Let us behave decently, as in the daytime, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and debauchery, not in dissension and jealousy. </span>
<span class="verse ro_13_14"><sup>14</sup>Rather, clothe yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not think about how to gratify the desires of the flesh.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In contexts like this, the Greek word for flesh (sarx ) refers to the sinful state of human beings, often presented as a power in opposition to the Spirit.">⚓</a><br/></span>
