---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>The Weak and the Strong </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>Accept the one whose faith is weak, without quarreling over disputable matters. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_2"><sup>2</sup>One person’s faith allows them to eat anything, but another, whose faith is weak, eats only vegetables. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_3"><sup>3</sup>The one who eats everything must not treat with contempt the one who does not, and the one who does not eat everything must not judge the one who does, for God has accepted them. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_4"><sup>4</sup>Who are you to judge someone else’s servant? To their own master, servants stand or fall. And they will stand, for the Lord is able to make them stand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_14_5"> <sup>5</sup>One person considers one day more sacred than another; another considers every day alike. Each of them should be fully convinced in their own mind. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_6"><sup>6</sup>Whoever regards one day as special does so to the Lord. Whoever eats meat does so to the Lord, for they give thanks to God; and whoever abstains does so to the Lord and gives thanks to God. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_7"><sup>7</sup>For none of us lives for ourselves alone, and none of us dies for ourselves alone. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_8"><sup>8</sup>If we live, we live for the Lord; and if we die, we die for the Lord. So, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_9"><sup>9</sup>For this very reason, Christ died and returned to life so that he might be the Lord of both the dead and the living. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_14_10"> <sup>10</sup>You, then, why do you judge your brother or sister<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brother or sister (adelphos ) refers here to a believer, whether man or woman, as part of God’s family; also in verses 13, 15 and 21.">⚓</a> ? Or why do you treat them with contempt? For we will all stand before God’s judgment seat. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_11"><sup>11</sup>It is written: <br/>  “ ‘As surely as I live,’ says the Lord, <br/>  ‘every knee will bow before me; <br/>   every tongue will acknowledge God.’ ”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 45:23">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_14_12"><sup>12</sup>So then, each of us will give an account of ourselves to God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_14_13"> <sup>13</sup>Therefore let us stop passing judgment on one another. Instead, make up your mind not to put any stumbling block or obstacle in the way of a brother or sister. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_14"><sup>14</sup>I am convinced, being fully persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean in itself. But if anyone regards something as unclean, then for that person it is unclean. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_15"><sup>15</sup>If your brother or sister is distressed because of what you eat, you are no longer acting in love. Do not by your eating destroy someone for whom Christ died. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_16"><sup>16</sup>Therefore do not let what you know is good be spoken of as evil. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_17"><sup>17</sup>For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy Spirit, </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_18"><sup>18</sup>because anyone who serves Christ in this way is pleasing to God and receives human approval. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_14_19"> <sup>19</sup>Let us therefore make every effort to do what leads to peace and to mutual edification. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_20"><sup>20</sup>Do not destroy the work of God for the sake of food. All food is clean, but it is wrong for a person to eat anything that causes someone else to stumble. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_21"><sup>21</sup>It is better not to eat meat or drink wine or to do anything else that will cause your brother or sister to fall. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_14_22"> <sup>22</sup>So whatever you believe about these things keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who does not condemn himself by what he approves. </span>
<span class="verse ro_14_23"><sup>23</sup>But whoever has doubts is condemned if they eat, because their eating is not from faith; and everything that does not come from faith is sin.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts place 16:25-27 here; others after 15:33.">⚓</a><br/></span>
