---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Roman 
bookNumber: 45
audio: \Audio\NIV\ro\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1></div>
<span class="verse ro_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>We who are strong ought to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_2"><sup>2</sup>Each of us should please our neighbors for their good, to build them up. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_3"><sup>3</sup>For even Christ did not please himself but, as it is written: “The insults of those who insult you have fallen on me.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 69:9">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_4"><sup>4</sup>For everything that was written in the past was written to teach us, so that through the endurance taught in the Scriptures and the encouragement they provide we might have hope. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_5"> <sup>5</sup>May the God who gives endurance and encouragement give you the same attitude of mind toward each other that Christ Jesus had, </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_6"><sup>6</sup>so that with one mind and one voice you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_7"> <sup>7</sup>Accept one another, then, just as Christ accepted you, in order to bring praise to God. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_8"><sup>8</sup>For I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek circumcision">⚓</a> on behalf of God’s truth, so that the promises made to the patriarchs might be confirmed </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_9"><sup>9</sup>and, moreover, that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written: <br/>  “Therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles; <br/>   I will sing the praises of your name.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="2 Samuel 22:50; Psalm 18:49">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_10"><sup>10</sup>Again, it says, <br/>  “Rejoice, you Gentiles, with his people.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 32:43">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_11"><sup>11</sup>And again, <br/>  “Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles; <br/>   let all the peoples extol him.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 117:1">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_12"><sup>12</sup>And again, Isaiah says, <br/>  “The Root of Jesse will spring up, <br/>   one who will arise to rule over the nations; <br/>   in him the Gentiles will hope.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 11:10 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_13"> <sup>13</sup>May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in him, so that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul the Minister to the Gentiles </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_15_14"> <sup>14</sup>I myself am convinced, my brothers and sisters, that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with knowledge and competent to instruct one another. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_15"><sup>15</sup>Yet I have written you quite boldly on some points to remind you of them again, because of the grace God gave me </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_16"><sup>16</sup>to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles. He gave me the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God, so that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_17"> <sup>17</sup>Therefore I glory in Christ Jesus in my service to God. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_18"><sup>18</sup>I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me in leading the Gentiles to obey God by what I have said and done— </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_19"><sup>19</sup>by the power of signs and wonders, through the power of the Spirit of God. So from Jerusalem all the way around to Illyricum, I have fully proclaimed the gospel of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_20"><sup>20</sup>It has always been my ambition to preach the gospel where Christ was not known, so that I would not be building on someone else’s foundation. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_21"><sup>21</sup>Rather, as it is written: <br/>  “Those who were not told about him will see, <br/>   and those who have not heard will understand.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 52:15 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_22"><sup>22</sup>This is why I have often been hindered from coming to you. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Plan to Visit Rome </h3></div>
<span class="verse ro_15_23"> <sup>23</sup>But now that there is no more place for me to work in these regions, and since I have been longing for many years to visit you, </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_24"><sup>24</sup>I plan to do so when I go to Spain. I hope to see you while passing through and to have you assist me on my journey there, after I have enjoyed your company for a while. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_25"><sup>25</sup>Now, however, I am on my way to Jerusalem in the service of the Lord’s people there. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_26"><sup>26</sup>For Macedonia and Achaia were pleased to make a contribution for the poor among the Lord’s people in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_27"><sup>27</sup>They were pleased to do it, and indeed they owe it to them. For if the Gentiles have shared in the Jews’ spiritual blessings, they owe it to the Jews to share with them their material blessings. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_28"><sup>28</sup>So after I have completed this task and have made sure that they have received this contribution, I will go to Spain and visit you on the way. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_29"><sup>29</sup>I know that when I come to you, I will come in the full measure of the blessing of Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ro_15_30"> <sup>30</sup>I urge you, brothers and sisters, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to join me in my struggle by praying to God for me. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_31"><sup>31</sup>Pray that I may be kept safe from the unbelievers in Judea and that the contribution I take to Jerusalem may be favorably received by the Lord’s people there, </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_32"><sup>32</sup>so that I may come to you with joy, by God’s will, and in your company be refreshed. </span>
<span class="verse ro_15_33"><sup>33</sup>The God of peace be with you all. Amen. <br/></span>
