---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: II Peter 
bookNumber: 61
audio: \Audio\NIV\2phi\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, <br/> To those who through the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ have received a faith as precious as ours: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>Grace and peace be yours in abundance through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Confirming One’s Calling and Election </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>His divine power has given us everything we need for a godly life through our knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and goodness. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_4"><sup>4</sup>Through these he has given us his very great and precious promises, so that through them you may participate in the divine nature, having escaped the corruption in the world caused by evil desires. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>For this very reason, make every effort to add to your faith goodness; and to goodness, knowledge; </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_6"><sup>6</sup>and to knowledge, self-control; and to self-control, perseverance; and to perseverance, godliness; </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_7"><sup>7</sup>and to godliness, mutual affection; and to mutual affection, love. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_8"><sup>8</sup>For if you possess these qualities in increasing measure, they will keep you from being ineffective and unproductive in your knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_9"><sup>9</sup>But whoever does not have them is nearsighted and blind, forgetting that they have been cleansed from their past sins. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>Therefore, my brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family.">⚓</a> make every effort to confirm your calling and election. For if you do these things, you will never stumble, </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_11"><sup>11</sup>and you will receive a rich welcome into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Prophecy of Scripture </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>So I will always remind you of these things, even though you know them and are firmly established in the truth you now have. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_13"><sup>13</sup>I think it is right to refresh your memory as long as I live in the tent of this body, </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_14"><sup>14</sup>because I know that I will soon put it aside, as our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_15"><sup>15</sup>And I will make every effort to see that after my departure you will always be able to remember these things. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_16"> <sup>16</sup>For we did not follow cleverly devised stories when we told you about the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ in power, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_17"><sup>17</sup>He received honor and glory from God the Father when the voice came to him from the Majestic Glory, saying, “This is my Son, whom I love; with him I am well pleased.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Matt. 17:5; Mark 9:7; Luke 9:35">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_18"><sup>18</sup>We ourselves heard this voice that came from heaven when we were with him on the sacred mountain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_19"> <sup>19</sup>We also have the prophetic message as something completely reliable, and you will do well to pay attention to it, as to a light shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_20"><sup>20</sup>Above all, you must understand that no prophecy of Scripture came about by the prophet’s own interpretation of things. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_1_21"><sup>21</sup>For prophecy never had its origin in the human will, but prophets, though human, spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. <br/></span>
