---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: II Peter 
bookNumber: 61
audio: \Audio\NIV\2phi\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>False Teachers and Their Destruction </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>But there were also false prophets among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you. They will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the sovereign Lord who bought them—bringing swift destruction on themselves. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_2"><sup>2</sup>Many will follow their depraved conduct and will bring the way of truth into disrepute. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_3"><sup>3</sup>In their greed these teachers will exploit you with fabricated stories. Their condemnation has long been hanging over them, and their destruction has not been sleeping. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_4"> <sup>4</sup>For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but sent them to hell,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Tartarus">⚓</a> putting them in chains of darkness<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts in gloomy dungeons">⚓</a> to be held for judgment; </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_5"><sup>5</sup>if he did not spare the ancient world when he brought the flood on its ungodly people, but protected Noah, a preacher of righteousness, and seven others; </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_6"><sup>6</sup>if he condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah by burning them to ashes, and made them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly; </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_7"><sup>7</sup>and if he rescued Lot, a righteous man, who was distressed by the depraved conduct of the lawless </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_8"><sup>8</sup>(for that righteous man, living among them day after day, was tormented in his righteous soul by the lawless deeds he saw and heard)— </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_9"><sup>9</sup>if this is so, then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and to hold the unrighteous for punishment on the day of judgment. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_10"><sup>10</sup>This is especially true of those who follow the corrupt desire of the flesh<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In contexts like this, the Greek word for flesh (sarx ) refers to the sinful state of human beings, often presented as a power in opposition to the Spirit; also in verse 18.">⚓</a> and despise authority. <br/> Bold and arrogant, they are not afraid to heap abuse on celestial beings; </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_11"><sup>11</sup>yet even angels, although they are stronger and more powerful, do not heap abuse on such beings when bringing judgment on them from<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many manuscripts beings in the presence of">⚓</a> the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_12"><sup>12</sup>But these people blaspheme in matters they do not understand. They are like unreasoning animals, creatures of instinct, born only to be caught and destroyed, and like animals they too will perish. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>They will be paid back with harm for the harm they have done. Their idea of pleasure is to carouse in broad daylight. They are blots and blemishes, reveling in their pleasures while they feast with you.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts in their love feasts">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_14"><sup>14</sup>With eyes full of adultery, they never stop sinning; they seduce the unstable; they are experts in greed—an accursed brood! </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_15"><sup>15</sup>They have left the straight way and wandered off to follow the way of Balaam son of Bezer,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Bosor">⚓</a> who loved the wages of wickedness. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_16"><sup>16</sup>But he was rebuked for his wrongdoing by a donkey—an animal without speech—who spoke with a human voice and restrained the prophet’s madness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>These people are springs without water and mists driven by a storm. Blackest darkness is reserved for them. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_18"><sup>18</sup>For they mouth empty, boastful words and, by appealing to the lustful desires of the flesh, they entice people who are just escaping from those who live in error. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_19"><sup>19</sup>They promise them freedom, while they themselves are slaves of depravity—for “people are slaves to whatever has mastered them.” </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_20"><sup>20</sup>If they have escaped the corruption of the world by knowing our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and are again entangled in it and are overcome, they are worse off at the end than they were at the beginning. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_21"><sup>21</sup>It would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than to have known it and then to turn their backs on the sacred command that was passed on to them. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_2_22"><sup>22</sup>Of them the proverbs are true: “A dog returns to its vomit,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Prov. 26:11">⚓</a> and, “A sow that is washed returns to her wallowing in the mud.” <br/></span>
