---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: II Peter 
bookNumber: 61
audio: \Audio\NIV\2phi\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>The Day of the Lord </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Dear friends, this is now my second letter to you. I have written both of them as reminders to stimulate you to wholesome thinking. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_2"><sup>2</sup>I want you to recall the words spoken in the past by the holy prophets and the command given by our Lord and Savior through your apostles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_3"> <sup>3</sup>Above all, you must understand that in the last days scoffers will come, scoffing and following their own evil desires. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_4"><sup>4</sup>They will say, “Where is this ‘coming’ he promised? Ever since our ancestors died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation.” </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_5"><sup>5</sup>But they deliberately forget that long ago by God’s word the heavens came into being and the earth was formed out of water and by water. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_6"><sup>6</sup>By these waters also the world of that time was deluged and destroyed. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_7"><sup>7</sup>By the same word the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire, being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_8"> <sup>8</sup>But do not forget this one thing, dear friends: With the Lord a day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like a day. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_9"><sup>9</sup>The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand slowness. Instead he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. The heavens will disappear with a roar; the elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything done in it will be laid bare.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts be burned up">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_11"> <sup>11</sup>Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people ought you to be? You ought to live holy and godly lives </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_12"><sup>12</sup>as you look forward to the day of God and speed its coming.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or as you wait eagerly for the day of God to come">⚓</a> That day will bring about the destruction of the heavens by fire, and the elements will melt in the heat. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_13"><sup>13</sup>But in keeping with his promise we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, where righteousness dwells. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_14"> <sup>14</sup>So then, dear friends, since you are looking forward to this, make every effort to be found spotless, blameless and at peace with him. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_15"><sup>15</sup>Bear in mind that our Lord’s patience means salvation, just as our dear brother Paul also wrote you with the wisdom that God gave him. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_16"><sup>16</sup>He writes the same way in all his letters, speaking in them of these matters. His letters contain some things that are hard to understand, which ignorant and unstable people distort, as they do the other Scriptures, to their own destruction. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_17"> <sup>17</sup>Therefore, dear friends, since you have been forewarned, be on your guard so that you may not be carried away by the error of the lawless and fall from your secure position. </span>
<span class="verse 2phi_3_18"><sup>18</sup>But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever! Amen. <br/></span>
