---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Jesus Taken Up Into Heaven </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>In my former book, Theophilus, I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and to teach </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_2"><sup>2</sup>until the day he was taken up to heaven, after giving instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen. </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_3"><sup>3</sup>After his suffering, he presented himself to them and gave many convincing proofs that he was alive. He appeared to them over a period of forty days and spoke about the kingdom of God. </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_4"><sup>4</sup>On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he gave them this command: <font color="red">“Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift my Father promised, which you have heard me speak about.</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_5"><sup>5</sup><font color="red">For John baptized with</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a><font color="red">water, but in a few days you will be baptized with</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a><font color="red">the Holy Spirit.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then they gathered around him and asked him, “Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_7"> <sup>7</sup>He said to them: <font color="red">“It is not for you to know the times or dates the Father has set by his own authority.</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_8"><sup>8</sup><font color="red">But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>After he said this, he was taken up before their very eyes, and a cloud hid him from their sight. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>They were looking intently up into the sky as he was going, when suddenly two men dressed in white stood beside them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_11"><sup>11</sup>“Men of Galilee,” they said, “why do you stand here looking into the sky? This same Jesus, who has been taken from you into heaven, will come back in the same way you have seen him go into heaven.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Matthias Chosen to Replace Judas </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>Then the apostles returned to Jerusalem from the hill called the Mount of Olives, a Sabbath day’s walk<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 5/8 mile or about 1 kilometer">⚓</a> from the city. </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_13"><sup>13</sup>When they arrived, they went upstairs to the room where they were staying. Those present were Peter, John, James and Andrew; Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew; James son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot, and Judas son of James. </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_14"><sup>14</sup>They all joined together constantly in prayer, along with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>In those days Peter stood up among the believers (a group numbering about a hundred and twenty) </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_16"><sup>16</sup>and said, “Brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in 6:3; 11:29; 12:17; 16:40; 18:18, 27; 21:7, 17; 28:14, 15.">⚓</a> the Scripture had to be fulfilled in which the Holy Spirit spoke long ago through David concerning Judas, who served as guide for those who arrested Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_17"><sup>17</sup>He was one of our number and shared in our ministry.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>(With the payment he received for his wickedness, Judas bought a field; there he fell headlong, his body burst open and all his intestines spilled out. </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_19"><sup>19</sup>Everyone in Jerusalem heard about this, so they called that field in their language Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_20"> <sup>20</sup>“For,” said Peter, “it is written in the Book of Psalms: <br/>  “ ‘May his place be deserted; <br/>   let there be no one to dwell in it,’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 69:25">⚓</a><br/>and, <br/>  “ ‘May another take his place of leadership.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 109:8">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_21"><sup>21</sup>Therefore it is necessary to choose one of the men who have been with us the whole time the Lord Jesus was living among us, </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_22"><sup>22</sup>beginning from John’s baptism to the time when Jesus was taken up from us. For one of these must become a witness with us of his resurrection.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_1_23"> <sup>23</sup>So they nominated two men: Joseph called Barsabbas (also known as Justus) and Matthias. </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_24"><sup>24</sup>Then they prayed, “Lord, you know everyone’s heart. Show us which of these two you have chosen </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_25"><sup>25</sup>to take over this apostolic ministry, which Judas left to go where he belongs.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_1_26"><sup>26</sup>Then they cast lots, and the lot fell to Matthias; so he was added to the eleven apostles. <br/></span>
