---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>The Holy Spirit Comes at Pentecost </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_2"><sup>2</sup>Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_3"><sup>3</sup>They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_4"><sup>4</sup>All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or languages ; also in verse 11">⚓</a> as the Spirit enabled them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>Now there were staying in Jerusalem God-fearing Jews from every nation under heaven. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_6"><sup>6</sup>When they heard this sound, a crowd came together in bewilderment, because each one heard their own language being spoken. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_7"><sup>7</sup>Utterly amazed, they asked: “Aren’t all these who are speaking Galileans? </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_8"><sup>8</sup>Then how is it that each of us hears them in our native language? </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_9"><sup>9</sup>Parthians, Medes and Elamites; residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, the Roman province by that name">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_10"><sup>10</sup>Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya near Cyrene; visitors from Rome </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_11"><sup>11</sup>(both Jews and converts to Judaism); Cretans and Arabs—we hear them declaring the wonders of God in our own tongues!” </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_12"><sup>12</sup>Amazed and perplexed, they asked one another, “What does this mean?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>Some, however, made fun of them and said, “They have had too much wine.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Peter Addresses the Crowd </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>Then Peter stood up with the Eleven, raised his voice and addressed the crowd: “Fellow Jews and all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me explain this to you; listen carefully to what I say. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_15"><sup>15</sup>These people are not drunk, as you suppose. It’s only nine in the morning! </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_16"><sup>16</sup>No, this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel: <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_17">  <sup>17</sup>“ ‘In the last days, God says, <br/>   I will pour out my Spirit on all people. <br/>  Your sons and daughters will prophesy, <br/>   your young men will see visions, <br/>   your old men will dream dreams. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_18">  <sup>18</sup>Even on my servants, both men and women, <br/>   I will pour out my Spirit in those days, <br/>   and they will prophesy. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_19">  <sup>19</sup>I will show wonders in the heavens above <br/>   and signs on the earth below, <br/>   blood and fire and billows of smoke. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_20">  <sup>20</sup>The sun will be turned to darkness <br/>   and the moon to blood <br/>   before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_21">  <sup>21</sup>And everyone who calls <br/>   on the name of the Lord will be saved.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Joel 2:28-32">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_22"> <sup>22</sup>“Fellow Israelites, listen to this: Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders and signs, which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_23"><sup>23</sup>This man was handed over to you by God’s deliberate plan and foreknowledge; and you, with the help of wicked men,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or of those not having the law (that is, Gentiles)">⚓</a> put him to death by nailing him to the cross. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_24"><sup>24</sup>But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_25"><sup>25</sup>David said about him: <br/>  “ ‘I saw the Lord always before me. <br/>   Because he is at my right hand, <br/>   I will not be shaken. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_26">  <sup>26</sup>Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices; <br/>   my body also will rest in hope, <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_27">  <sup>27</sup>because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead, <br/>   you will not let your holy one see decay. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_28">  <sup>28</sup>You have made known to me the paths of life; <br/>   you will fill me with joy in your presence.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 16:8-11 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_29"> <sup>29</sup>“Fellow Israelites, I can tell you confidently that the patriarch David died and was buried, and his tomb is here to this day. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_30"><sup>30</sup>But he was a prophet and knew that God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on his throne. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_31"><sup>31</sup>Seeing what was to come, he spoke of the resurrection of the Messiah, that he was not abandoned to the realm of the dead, nor did his body see decay. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_32"><sup>32</sup>God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of it. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_33"><sup>33</sup>Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_34"><sup>34</sup>For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, <br/>  “ ‘The Lord said to my Lord: <br/>   “Sit at my right hand <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_35">  <sup>35</sup>until I make your enemies <br/>   a footstool for your feet.” ’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 110:1">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_36"> <sup>36</sup>“Therefore let all Israel be assured of this: God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Messiah.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_37"> <sup>37</sup>When the people heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the other apostles, “Brothers, what shall we do?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_38"> <sup>38</sup>Peter replied, “Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_39"><sup>39</sup>The promise is for you and your children and for all who are far off—for all whom the Lord our God will call.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_2_40"> <sup>40</sup>With many other words he warned them; and he pleaded with them, “Save yourselves from this corrupt generation.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_41"><sup>41</sup>Those who accepted his message were baptized, and about three thousand were added to their number that day. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Fellowship of the Believers </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_2_42"> <sup>42</sup>They devoted themselves to the apostles’ teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_43"><sup>43</sup>Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_44"><sup>44</sup>All the believers were together and had everything in common. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_45"><sup>45</sup>They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need. </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_46"><sup>46</sup>Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, </span>
<span class="verse cong_2_47"><sup>47</sup>praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. <br/></span>
