---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Peter and John Before the Sanhedrin </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>The priests and the captain of the temple guard and the Sadducees came up to Peter and John while they were speaking to the people. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_2"><sup>2</sup>They were greatly disturbed because the apostles were teaching the people, proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection of the dead. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_3"><sup>3</sup>They seized Peter and John and, because it was evening, they put them in jail until the next day. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_4"><sup>4</sup>But many who heard the message believed; so the number of men who believed grew to about five thousand. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_5"> <sup>5</sup>The next day the rulers, the elders and the teachers of the law met in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Annas the high priest was there, and so were Caiaphas, John, Alexander and others of the high priest’s family. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_7"><sup>7</sup>They had Peter and John brought before them and began to question them: “By what power or what name did you do this?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: “Rulers and elders of the people! </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_9"><sup>9</sup>If we are being called to account today for an act of kindness shown to a man who was lame and are being asked how he was healed, </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_10"><sup>10</sup>then know this, you and all the people of Israel: It is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified but whom God raised from the dead, that this man stands before you healed. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_11"><sup>11</sup>Jesus is <br/>  “ ‘the stone you builders rejected, <br/>   which has become the cornerstone.’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 118:22">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_12"><sup>12</sup>Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_13"> <sup>13</sup>When they saw the courage of Peter and John and realized that they were unschooled, ordinary men, they were astonished and they took note that these men had been with Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_14"><sup>14</sup>But since they could see the man who had been healed standing there with them, there was nothing they could say. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_15"><sup>15</sup>So they ordered them to withdraw from the Sanhedrin and then conferred together. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_16"><sup>16</sup>“What are we going to do with these men?” they asked. “Everyone living in Jerusalem knows they have performed a notable sign, and we cannot deny it. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_17"><sup>17</sup>But to stop this thing from spreading any further among the people, we must warn them to speak no longer to anyone in this name.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then they called them in again and commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_19"><sup>19</sup>But Peter and John replied, “Which is right in God’s eyes: to listen to you, or to him? You be the judges! </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_20"><sup>20</sup>As for us, we cannot help speaking about what we have seen and heard.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>After further threats they let them go. They could not decide how to punish them, because all the people were praising God for what had happened. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_22"><sup>22</sup>For the man who was miraculously healed was over forty years old. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Believers Pray </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_4_23"> <sup>23</sup>On their release, Peter and John went back to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_24"><sup>24</sup>When they heard this, they raised their voices together in prayer to God. “Sovereign Lord,” they said, “you made the heavens and the earth and the sea, and everything in them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_25"><sup>25</sup>You spoke by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of your servant, our father David: <br/>  “ ‘Why do the nations rage <br/>   and the peoples plot in vain? <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_26">  <sup>26</sup>The kings of the earth rise up <br/>   and the rulers band together <br/>  against the Lord <br/>   and against his anointed one.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Messiah or Christ">⚓</a> ’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Psalm 2:1,2">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_27"><sup>27</sup>Indeed Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_28"><sup>28</sup>They did what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_29"><sup>29</sup>Now, Lord, consider their threats and enable your servants to speak your word with great boldness. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_30"><sup>30</sup>Stretch out your hand to heal and perform signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant Jesus.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_31"> <sup>31</sup>After they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Believers Share Their Possessions </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_4_32"> <sup>32</sup>All the believers were one in heart and mind. No one claimed that any of their possessions was their own, but they shared everything they had. </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_33"><sup>33</sup>With great power the apostles continued to testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And God’s grace was so powerfully at work in them all </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_34"><sup>34</sup>that there were no needy persons among them. For from time to time those who owned land or houses sold them, brought the money from the sales </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_35"><sup>35</sup>and put it at the apostles’ feet, and it was distributed to anyone who had need. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_4_36"> <sup>36</sup>Joseph, a Levite from Cyprus, whom the apostles called Barnabas (which means “son of encouragement”), </span>
<span class="verse cong_4_37"><sup>37</sup>sold a field he owned and brought the money and put it at the apostles’ feet. <br/></span>
