---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Ananias and Sapphira </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>Now a man named Ananias, together with his wife Sapphira, also sold a piece of property. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_2"><sup>2</sup>With his wife’s full knowledge he kept back part of the money for himself, but brought the rest and put it at the apostles’ feet. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_3"> <sup>3</sup>Then Peter said, “Ananias, how is it that Satan has so filled your heart that you have lied to the Holy Spirit and have kept for yourself some of the money you received for the land? </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_4"><sup>4</sup>Didn’t it belong to you before it was sold? And after it was sold, wasn’t the money at your disposal? What made you think of doing such a thing? You have not lied just to human beings but to God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_5"> <sup>5</sup>When Ananias heard this, he fell down and died. And great fear seized all who heard what had happened. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_6"><sup>6</sup>Then some young men came forward, wrapped up his body, and carried him out and buried him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_7"> <sup>7</sup>About three hours later his wife came in, not knowing what had happened. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_8"><sup>8</sup>Peter asked her, “Tell me, is this the price you and Ananias got for the land?” <br/> “Yes,” she said, “that is the price.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_9"> <sup>9</sup>Peter said to her, “How could you conspire to test the Spirit of the Lord? Listen! The feet of the men who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out also.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_10"> <sup>10</sup>At that moment she fell down at his feet and died. Then the young men came in and, finding her dead, carried her out and buried her beside her husband. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_11"><sup>11</sup>Great fear seized the whole church and all who heard about these events. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Apostles Heal Many </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_5_12"> <sup>12</sup>The apostles performed many signs and wonders among the people. And all the believers used to meet together in Solomon’s Colonnade. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_13"><sup>13</sup>No one else dared join them, even though they were highly regarded by the people. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_14"><sup>14</sup>Nevertheless, more and more men and women believed in the Lord and were added to their number. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_15"><sup>15</sup>As a result, people brought the sick into the streets and laid them on beds and mats so that at least Peter’s shadow might fall on some of them as he passed by. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_16"><sup>16</sup>Crowds gathered also from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing their sick and those tormented by impure spirits, and all of them were healed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Apostles Persecuted </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_5_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then the high priest and all his associates, who were members of the party of the Sadducees, were filled with jealousy. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_18"><sup>18</sup>They arrested the apostles and put them in the public jail. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_19"><sup>19</sup>But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the jail and brought them out. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_20"><sup>20</sup>“Go, stand in the temple courts,” he said, “and tell the people all about this new life.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_21"> <sup>21</sup>At daybreak they entered the temple courts, as they had been told, and began to teach the people. <br/> When the high priest and his associates arrived, they called together the Sanhedrin—the full assembly of the elders of Israel—and sent to the jail for the apostles. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_22"><sup>22</sup>But on arriving at the jail, the officers did not find them there. So they went back and reported, </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_23"><sup>23</sup>“We found the jail securely locked, with the guards standing at the doors; but when we opened them, we found no one inside.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_24"><sup>24</sup>On hearing this report, the captain of the temple guard and the chief priests were at a loss, wondering what this might lead to. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then someone came and said, “Look! The men you put in jail are standing in the temple courts teaching the people.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_26"><sup>26</sup>At that, the captain went with his officers and brought the apostles. They did not use force, because they feared that the people would stone them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_27"> <sup>27</sup>The apostles were brought in and made to appear before the Sanhedrin to be questioned by the high priest. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_28"><sup>28</sup>“We gave you strict orders not to teach in this name,” he said. “Yet you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and are determined to make us guilty of this man’s blood.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_29"> <sup>29</sup>Peter and the other apostles replied: “We must obey God rather than human beings! </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_30"><sup>30</sup>The God of our ancestors raised Jesus from the dead—whom you killed by hanging him on a cross. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_31"><sup>31</sup>God exalted him to his own right hand as Prince and Savior that he might bring Israel to repentance and forgive their sins. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_32"><sup>32</sup>We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_33"> <sup>33</sup>When they heard this, they were furious and wanted to put them to death. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_34"><sup>34</sup>But a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, who was honored by all the people, stood up in the Sanhedrin and ordered that the men be put outside for a little while. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_35"><sup>35</sup>Then he addressed the Sanhedrin: “Men of Israel, consider carefully what you intend to do to these men. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_36"><sup>36</sup>Some time ago Theudas appeared, claiming to be somebody, and about four hundred men rallied to him. He was killed, all his followers were dispersed, and it all came to nothing. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_37"><sup>37</sup>After him, Judas the Galilean appeared in the days of the census and led a band of people in revolt. He too was killed, and all his followers were scattered. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_38"><sup>38</sup>Therefore, in the present case I advise you: Leave these men alone! Let them go! For if their purpose or activity is of human origin, it will fail. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_39"><sup>39</sup>But if it is from God, you will not be able to stop these men; you will only find yourselves fighting against God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_40"> <sup>40</sup>His speech persuaded them. They called the apostles in and had them flogged. Then they ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_5_41"> <sup>41</sup>The apostles left the Sanhedrin, rejoicing because they had been counted worthy of suffering disgrace for the Name. </span>
<span class="verse cong_5_42"><sup>42</sup>Day after day, in the temple courts and from house to house, they never stopped teaching and proclaiming the good news that Jesus is the Messiah. <br/></span>
