---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>The Choosing of the Seven </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>In those days when the number of disciples was increasing, the Hellenistic Jews<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Jews who had adopted the Greek language and culture">⚓</a> among them complained against the Hebraic Jews because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution of food. </span>
<span class="verse cong_6_2"><sup>2</sup>So the Twelve gathered all the disciples together and said, “It would not be right for us to neglect the ministry of the word of God in order to wait on tables. </span>
<span class="verse cong_6_3"><sup>3</sup>Brothers and sisters, choose seven men from among you who are known to be full of the Spirit and wisdom. We will turn this responsibility over to them </span>
<span class="verse cong_6_4"><sup>4</sup>and will give our attention to prayer and the ministry of the word.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_6_5"> <sup>5</sup>This proposal pleased the whole group. They chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit; also Philip, Procorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolas from Antioch, a convert to Judaism. </span>
<span class="verse cong_6_6"><sup>6</sup>They presented these men to the apostles, who prayed and laid their hands on them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_6_7"> <sup>7</sup>So the word of God spread. The number of disciples in Jerusalem increased rapidly, and a large number of priests became obedient to the faith. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Stephen Seized </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>Now Stephen, a man full of God’s grace and power, performed great wonders and signs among the people. </span>
<span class="verse cong_6_9"><sup>9</sup>Opposition arose, however, from members of the Synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called)—Jews of Cyrene and Alexandria as well as the provinces of Cilicia and Asia—who began to argue with Stephen. </span>
<span class="verse cong_6_10"><sup>10</sup>But they could not stand up against the wisdom the Spirit gave him as he spoke. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then they secretly persuaded some men to say, “We have heard Stephen speak blasphemous words against Moses and against God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>So they stirred up the people and the elders and the teachers of the law. They seized Stephen and brought him before the Sanhedrin. </span>
<span class="verse cong_6_13"><sup>13</sup>They produced false witnesses, who testified, “This fellow never stops speaking against this holy place and against the law. </span>
<span class="verse cong_6_14"><sup>14</sup>For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and change the customs Moses handed down to us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_6_15"> <sup>15</sup>All who were sitting in the Sanhedrin looked intently at Stephen, and they saw that his face was like the face of an angel. <br/></span>
