---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1></div>
<span class="verse cong_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>And Saul approved of their killing him. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Church Persecuted and Scattered </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_8_1"> On that day a great persecution broke out against the church in Jerusalem, and all except the apostles were scattered throughout Judea and Samaria. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_2"><sup>2</sup>Godly men buried Stephen and mourned deeply for him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_3"><sup>3</sup>But Saul began to destroy the church. Going from house to house, he dragged off both men and women and put them in prison. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Philip in Samaria </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_8_4"> <sup>4</sup>Those who had been scattered preached the word wherever they went. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_5"><sup>5</sup>Philip went down to a city in Samaria and proclaimed the Messiah there. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_6"><sup>6</sup>When the crowds heard Philip and saw the signs he performed, they all paid close attention to what he said. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_7"><sup>7</sup>For with shrieks, impure spirits came out of many, and many who were paralyzed or lame were healed. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_8"><sup>8</sup>So there was great joy in that city. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Simon the Sorcerer </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_8_9"> <sup>9</sup>Now for some time a man named Simon had practiced sorcery in the city and amazed all the people of Samaria. He boasted that he was someone great, </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_10"><sup>10</sup>and all the people, both high and low, gave him their attention and exclaimed, “This man is rightly called the Great Power of God.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_11"><sup>11</sup>They followed him because he had amazed them for a long time with his sorcery. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_12"><sup>12</sup>But when they believed Philip as he proclaimed the good news of the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_13"><sup>13</sup>Simon himself believed and was baptized. And he followed Philip everywhere, astonished by the great signs and miracles he saw. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_14"> <sup>14</sup>When the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had accepted the word of God, they sent Peter and John to Samaria. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_15"><sup>15</sup>When they arrived, they prayed for the new believers there that they might receive the Holy Spirit, </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_16"><sup>16</sup>because the Holy Spirit had not yet come on any of them; they had simply been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_17"><sup>17</sup>Then Peter and John placed their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_18"> <sup>18</sup>When Simon saw that the Spirit was given at the laying on of the apostles’ hands, he offered them money </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_19"><sup>19</sup>and said, “Give me also this ability so that everyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_20"> <sup>20</sup>Peter answered: “May your money perish with you, because you thought you could buy the gift of God with money! </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_21"><sup>21</sup>You have no part or share in this ministry, because your heart is not right before God. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_22"><sup>22</sup>Repent of this wickedness and pray to the Lord in the hope that he may forgive you for having such a thought in your heart. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_23"><sup>23</sup>For I see that you are full of bitterness and captive to sin.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then Simon answered, “Pray to the Lord for me so that nothing you have said may happen to me.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_25"> <sup>25</sup>After they had further proclaimed the word of the Lord and testified about Jesus, Peter and John returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel in many Samaritan villages. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Philip and the Ethiopian </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_8_26"> <sup>26</sup>Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, “Go south to the road—the desert road—that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_27"><sup>27</sup>So he started out, and on his way he met an Ethiopian<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, from the southern Nile region">⚓</a> eunuch, an important official in charge of all the treasury of the Kandake (which means “queen of the Ethiopians”). This man had gone to Jerusalem to worship, </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_28"><sup>28</sup>and on his way home was sitting in his chariot reading the Book of Isaiah the prophet. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_29"><sup>29</sup>The Spirit told Philip, “Go to that chariot and stay near it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_30"> <sup>30</sup>Then Philip ran up to the chariot and heard the man reading Isaiah the prophet. “Do you understand what you are reading?” Philip asked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_31"> <sup>31</sup>“How can I,” he said, “unless someone explains it to me?” So he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_32"> <sup>32</sup>This is the passage of Scripture the eunuch was reading: <br/>  “He was led like a sheep to the slaughter, <br/>   and as a lamb before its shearer is silent, <br/>   so he did not open his mouth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_33">  <sup>33</sup>In his humiliation he was deprived of justice. <br/>   Who can speak of his descendants? <br/>   For his life was taken from the earth.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 53:7,8 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_34"> <sup>34</sup>The eunuch asked Philip, “Tell me, please, who is the prophet talking about, himself or someone else?” </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_35"><sup>35</sup>Then Philip began with that very passage of Scripture and told him the good news about Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_36"> <sup>36</sup>As they traveled along the road, they came to some water and the eunuch said, “Look, here is water. What can stand in the way of my being baptized?” </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_37"><sup>[37]</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts include here Philip said, “If you believe with all your heart, you may.” The eunuch answered, “I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.”">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse cong_8_38"><sup>38</sup>And he gave orders to stop the chariot. Then both Philip and the eunuch went down into the water and Philip baptized him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_39"><sup>39</sup>When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord suddenly took Philip away, and the eunuch did not see him again, but went on his way rejoicing. </span>
<span class="verse cong_8_40"><sup>40</sup>Philip, however, appeared at Azotus and traveled about, preaching the gospel in all the towns until he reached Caesarea. <br/></span>
