---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\9.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>9</h1><h3>Saul’s Conversion </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_9_1"> <sup>1</sup>Meanwhile, Saul was still breathing out murderous threats against the Lord’s disciples. He went to the high priest </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_2"><sup>2</sup>and asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found any there who belonged to the Way, whether men or women, he might take them as prisoners to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_3"><sup>3</sup>As he neared Damascus on his journey, suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_4"><sup>4</sup>He fell to the ground and heard a voice say to him, <font color="red">“Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_5"> <sup>5</sup>“Who are you, Lord?” Saul asked. <br/> <font color="red">“I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting,”</font> he replied. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_6"><sup>6</sup><font color="red">“Now get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_7"> <sup>7</sup>The men traveling with Saul stood there speechless; they heard the sound but did not see anyone. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_8"><sup>8</sup>Saul got up from the ground, but when he opened his eyes he could see nothing. So they led him by the hand into Damascus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_9"><sup>9</sup>For three days he was blind, and did not eat or drink anything. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_10"> <sup>10</sup>In Damascus there was a disciple named Ananias. The Lord called to him in a vision, <font color="red">“Ananias!”</font><br/> “Yes, Lord,” he answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_11"> <sup>11</sup>The Lord told him, <font color="red">“Go to the house of Judas on Straight Street and ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul, for he is praying.</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_12"><sup>12</sup><font color="red">In a vision he has seen a man named Ananias come and place his hands on him to restore his sight.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_13"> <sup>13</sup>“Lord,” Ananias answered, “I have heard many reports about this man and all the harm he has done to your holy people in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_14"><sup>14</sup>And he has come here with authority from the chief priests to arrest all who call on your name.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_15"> <sup>15</sup>But the Lord said to Ananias, <font color="red">“Go! This man is my chosen instrument to proclaim my name to the Gentiles and their kings and to the people of Israel.</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_16"><sup>16</sup><font color="red">I will show him how much he must suffer for my name.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then Ananias went to the house and entered it. Placing his hands on Saul, he said, “Brother Saul, the Lord—Jesus, who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here—has sent me so that you may see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_18"><sup>18</sup>Immediately, something like scales fell from Saul’s eyes, and he could see again. He got up and was baptized, </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_19"><sup>19</sup>and after taking some food, he regained his strength. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_9_19"> Saul spent several days with the disciples in Damascus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_20"><sup>20</sup>At once he began to preach in the synagogues that Jesus is the Son of God. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_21"><sup>21</sup>All those who heard him were astonished and asked, “Isn’t he the man who raised havoc in Jerusalem among those who call on this name? And hasn’t he come here to take them as prisoners to the chief priests?” </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_22"><sup>22</sup>Yet Saul grew more and more powerful and baffled the Jews living in Damascus by proving that Jesus is the Messiah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_23"> <sup>23</sup>After many days had gone by, there was a conspiracy among the Jews to kill him, </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_24"><sup>24</sup>but Saul learned of their plan. Day and night they kept close watch on the city gates in order to kill him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_25"><sup>25</sup>But his followers took him by night and lowered him in a basket through an opening in the wall. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_26"> <sup>26</sup>When he came to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him, not believing that he really was a disciple. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_27"><sup>27</sup>But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles. He told them how Saul on his journey had seen the Lord and that the Lord had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had preached fearlessly in the name of Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_28"><sup>28</sup>So Saul stayed with them and moved about freely in Jerusalem, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_29"><sup>29</sup>He talked and debated with the Hellenistic Jews,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Jews who had adopted the Greek language and culture">⚓</a> but they tried to kill him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_30"><sup>30</sup>When the believers learned of this, they took him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_31"> <sup>31</sup>Then the church throughout Judea, Galilee and Samaria enjoyed a time of peace and was strengthened. Living in the fear of the Lord and encouraged by the Holy Spirit, it increased in numbers. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Aeneas and Dorcas </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_9_32"> <sup>32</sup>As Peter traveled about the country, he went to visit the Lord’s people who lived in Lydda. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_33"><sup>33</sup>There he found a man named Aeneas, who was paralyzed and had been bedridden for eight years. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_34"><sup>34</sup>“Aeneas,” Peter said to him, “Jesus Christ heals you. Get up and roll up your mat.” Immediately Aeneas got up. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_35"><sup>35</sup>All those who lived in Lydda and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_36"> <sup>36</sup>In Joppa there was a disciple named Tabitha (in Greek her name is Dorcas); she was always doing good and helping the poor. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_37"><sup>37</sup>About that time she became sick and died, and her body was washed and placed in an upstairs room. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_38"><sup>38</sup>Lydda was near Joppa; so when the disciples heard that Peter was in Lydda, they sent two men to him and urged him, “Please come at once!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_39"> <sup>39</sup>Peter went with them, and when he arrived he was taken upstairs to the room. All the widows stood around him, crying and showing him the robes and other clothing that Dorcas had made while she was still with them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_9_40"> <sup>40</sup>Peter sent them all out of the room; then he got down on his knees and prayed. Turning toward the dead woman, he said, “Tabitha, get up.” She opened her eyes, and seeing Peter she sat up. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_41"><sup>41</sup>He took her by the hand and helped her to her feet. Then he called for the believers, especially the widows, and presented her to them alive. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_42"><sup>42</sup>This became known all over Joppa, and many people believed in the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse cong_9_43"><sup>43</sup>Peter stayed in Joppa for some time with a tanner named Simon. <br/></span>
