---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>Cornelius Calls for Peter </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion in what was known as the Italian Regiment. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_2"><sup>2</sup>He and all his family were devout and God-fearing; he gave generously to those in need and prayed to God regularly. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_3"><sup>3</sup>One day at about three in the afternoon he had a vision. He distinctly saw an angel of God, who came to him and said, “Cornelius!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_4"> <sup>4</sup>Cornelius stared at him in fear. “What is it, Lord?” he asked. <br/> The angel answered, “Your prayers and gifts to the poor have come up as a memorial offering before God. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_5"><sup>5</sup>Now send men to Joppa to bring back a man named Simon who is called Peter. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_6"><sup>6</sup>He is staying with Simon the tanner, whose house is by the sea.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_7"> <sup>7</sup>When the angel who spoke to him had gone, Cornelius called two of his servants and a devout soldier who was one of his attendants. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_8"><sup>8</sup>He told them everything that had happened and sent them to Joppa. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Peter’s Vision </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_10_9"> <sup>9</sup>About noon the following day as they were on their journey and approaching the city, Peter went up on the roof to pray. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_10"><sup>10</sup>He became hungry and wanted something to eat, and while the meal was being prepared, he fell into a trance. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_11"><sup>11</sup>He saw heaven opened and something like a large sheet being let down to earth by its four corners. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_12"><sup>12</sup>It contained all kinds of four-footed animals, as well as reptiles and birds. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_13"><sup>13</sup>Then a voice told him, <font color="red">“Get up, Peter. Kill and eat.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Surely not, Lord!” Peter replied. “I have never eaten anything impure or unclean.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_15"> <sup>15</sup>The voice spoke to him a second time, <font color="red">“Do not call anything impure that God has made clean.”</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>This happened three times, and immediately the sheet was taken back to heaven. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_17"> <sup>17</sup>While Peter was wondering about the meaning of the vision, the men sent by Cornelius found out where Simon’s house was and stopped at the gate. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_18"><sup>18</sup>They called out, asking if Simon who was known as Peter was staying there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_19"> <sup>19</sup>While Peter was still thinking about the vision, the Spirit said to him, “Simon, three<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="One early manuscript two ; other manuscripts do not have the number.">⚓</a> men are looking for you. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_20"><sup>20</sup>So get up and go downstairs. Do not hesitate to go with them, for I have sent them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_21"> <sup>21</sup>Peter went down and said to the men, “I’m the one you’re looking for. Why have you come?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_22"> <sup>22</sup>The men replied, “We have come from Cornelius the centurion. He is a righteous and God-fearing man, who is respected by all the Jewish people. A holy angel told him to ask you to come to his house so that he could hear what you have to say.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_23"><sup>23</sup>Then Peter invited the men into the house to be his guests. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Peter at Cornelius’s House </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_10_23"> The next day Peter started out with them, and some of the believers from Joppa went along. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_24"><sup>24</sup>The following day he arrived in Caesarea. Cornelius was expecting them and had called together his relatives and close friends. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_25"><sup>25</sup>As Peter entered the house, Cornelius met him and fell at his feet in reverence. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_26"><sup>26</sup>But Peter made him get up. “Stand up,” he said, “I am only a man myself.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_27"> <sup>27</sup>While talking with him, Peter went inside and found a large gathering of people. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_28"><sup>28</sup>He said to them: “You are well aware that it is against our law for a Jew to associate with or visit a Gentile. But God has shown me that I should not call anyone impure or unclean. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_29"><sup>29</sup>So when I was sent for, I came without raising any objection. May I ask why you sent for me?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_30"> <sup>30</sup>Cornelius answered: “Three days ago I was in my house praying at this hour, at three in the afternoon. Suddenly a man in shining clothes stood before me </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_31"><sup>31</sup>and said, ‘Cornelius, God has heard your prayer and remembered your gifts to the poor. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_32"><sup>32</sup>Send to Joppa for Simon who is called Peter. He is a guest in the home of Simon the tanner, who lives by the sea.’ </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_33"><sup>33</sup>So I sent for you immediately, and it was good of you to come. Now we are all here in the presence of God to listen to everything the Lord has commanded you to tell us.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_34"> <sup>34</sup>Then Peter began to speak: “I now realize how true it is that God does not show favoritism </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_35"><sup>35</sup>but accepts from every nation the one who fears him and does what is right. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_36"><sup>36</sup>You know the message God sent to the people of Israel, announcing the good news of peace through Jesus Christ, who is Lord of all. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_37"><sup>37</sup>You know what has happened throughout the province of Judea, beginning in Galilee after the baptism that John preached— </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_38"><sup>38</sup>how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power, and how he went around doing good and healing all who were under the power of the devil, because God was with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_39"> <sup>39</sup>“We are witnesses of everything he did in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They killed him by hanging him on a cross, </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_40"><sup>40</sup>but God raised him from the dead on the third day and caused him to be seen. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_41"><sup>41</sup>He was not seen by all the people, but by witnesses whom God had already chosen—by us who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_42"><sup>42</sup>He commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one whom God appointed as judge of the living and the dead. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_43"><sup>43</sup>All the prophets testify about him that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_10_44"> <sup>44</sup>While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit came on all who heard the message. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_45"><sup>45</sup>The circumcised believers who had come with Peter were astonished that the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out even on Gentiles. </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_46"><sup>46</sup>For they heard them speaking in tongues<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or other languages">⚓</a> and praising God. <br/> Then Peter said, </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_47"><sup>47</sup>“Surely no one can stand in the way of their being baptized with water. They have received the Holy Spirit just as we have.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_10_48"><sup>48</sup>So he ordered that they be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked Peter to stay with them for a few days. <br/></span>
