---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1><h3>Peter Explains His Actions </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>The apostles and the believers throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_2"><sup>2</sup>So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcised believers criticized him </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_3"><sup>3</sup>and said, “You went into the house of uncircumcised men and ate with them.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_4"> <sup>4</sup>Starting from the beginning, Peter told them the whole story: </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_5"><sup>5</sup>“I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision. I saw something like a large sheet being let down from heaven by its four corners, and it came down to where I was. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_6"><sup>6</sup>I looked into it and saw four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts, reptiles and birds. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_7"><sup>7</sup>Then I heard a voice telling me, <font color="red">‘Get up, Peter. Kill and eat.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_8"> <sup>8</sup>“I replied, ‘Surely not, Lord! Nothing impure or unclean has ever entered my mouth.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_9"> <sup>9</sup>“The voice spoke from heaven a second time, <font color="red">‘Do not call anything impure that God has made clean.’</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_10"><sup>10</sup>This happened three times, and then it was all pulled up to heaven again. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Right then three men who had been sent to me from Caesarea stopped at the house where I was staying. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_12"><sup>12</sup>The Spirit told me to have no hesitation about going with them. These six brothers also went with me, and we entered the man’s house. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_13"><sup>13</sup>He told us how he had seen an angel appear in his house and say, ‘Send to Joppa for Simon who is called Peter. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_14"><sup>14</sup>He will bring you a message through which you and all your household will be saved.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_15"> <sup>15</sup>“As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit came on them as he had come on us at the beginning. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_16"><sup>16</sup>Then I remembered what the Lord had said: <font color="red">‘John baptized with</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a><font color="red">water, but you will be baptized with</font><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in">⚓</a><font color="red">the Holy Spirit.’</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_17"><sup>17</sup>So if God gave them the same gift he gave us who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to think that I could stand in God’s way?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_18"> <sup>18</sup>When they heard this, they had no further objections and praised God, saying, “So then, even to Gentiles God has granted repentance that leads to life.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Church in Antioch </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_11_19"> <sup>19</sup>Now those who had been scattered by the persecution that broke out when Stephen was killed traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus and Antioch, spreading the word only among Jews. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_20"><sup>20</sup>Some of them, however, men from Cyprus and Cyrene, went to Antioch and began to speak to Greeks also, telling them the good news about the Lord Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_21"><sup>21</sup>The Lord’s hand was with them, and a great number of people believed and turned to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>News of this reached the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_23"><sup>23</sup>When he arrived and saw what the grace of God had done, he was glad and encouraged them all to remain true to the Lord with all their hearts. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_24"><sup>24</sup>He was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and faith, and a great number of people were brought to the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_25"> <sup>25</sup>Then Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul, </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_26"><sup>26</sup>and when he found him, he brought him to Antioch. So for a whole year Barnabas and Saul met with the church and taught great numbers of people. The disciples were called Christians first at Antioch. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_11_27"> <sup>27</sup>During this time some prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_28"><sup>28</sup>One of them, named Agabus, stood up and through the Spirit predicted that a severe famine would spread over the entire Roman world. (This happened during the reign of Claudius.) </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_29"><sup>29</sup>The disciples, as each one was able, decided to provide help for the brothers and sisters living in Judea. </span>
<span class="verse cong_11_30"><sup>30</sup>This they did, sending their gift to the elders by Barnabas and Saul. <br/></span>
