---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Peter’s Miraculous Escape From Prison </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>It was about this time that King Herod arrested some who belonged to the church, intending to persecute them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_2"><sup>2</sup>He had James, the brother of John, put to death with the sword. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_3"><sup>3</sup>When he saw that this met with approval among the Jews, he proceeded to seize Peter also. This happened during the Festival of Unleavened Bread. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_4"><sup>4</sup>After arresting him, he put him in prison, handing him over to be guarded by four squads of four soldiers each. Herod intended to bring him out for public trial after the Passover. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_5"> <sup>5</sup>So Peter was kept in prison, but the church was earnestly praying to God for him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_6"> <sup>6</sup>The night before Herod was to bring him to trial, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and sentries stood guard at the entrance. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_7"><sup>7</sup>Suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side and woke him up. “Quick, get up!” he said, and the chains fell off Peter’s wrists. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then the angel said to him, “Put on your clothes and sandals.” And Peter did so. “Wrap your cloak around you and follow me,” the angel told him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_9"><sup>9</sup>Peter followed him out of the prison, but he had no idea that what the angel was doing was really happening; he thought he was seeing a vision. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_10"><sup>10</sup>They passed the first and second guards and came to the iron gate leading to the city. It opened for them by itself, and they went through it. When they had walked the length of one street, suddenly the angel left him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_11"> <sup>11</sup>Then Peter came to himself and said, “Now I know without a doubt that the Lord has sent his angel and rescued me from Herod’s clutches and from everything the Jewish people were hoping would happen.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_12"> <sup>12</sup>When this had dawned on him, he went to the house of Mary the mother of John, also called Mark, where many people had gathered and were praying. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_13"><sup>13</sup>Peter knocked at the outer entrance, and a servant named Rhoda came to answer the door. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_14"><sup>14</sup>When she recognized Peter’s voice, she was so overjoyed she ran back without opening it and exclaimed, “Peter is at the door!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_15"> <sup>15</sup>“You’re out of your mind,” they told her. When she kept insisting that it was so, they said, “It must be his angel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_16"> <sup>16</sup>But Peter kept on knocking, and when they opened the door and saw him, they were astonished. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_17"><sup>17</sup>Peter motioned with his hand for them to be quiet and described how the Lord had brought him out of prison. “Tell James and the other brothers and sisters about this,” he said, and then he left for another place. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_18"> <sup>18</sup>In the morning, there was no small commotion among the soldiers as to what had become of Peter. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_19"><sup>19</sup>After Herod had a thorough search made for him and did not find him, he cross-examined the guards and ordered that they be executed. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Herod’s Death </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_12_19"> Then Herod went from Judea to Caesarea and stayed there. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_20"><sup>20</sup>He had been quarreling with the people of Tyre and Sidon; they now joined together and sought an audience with him. After securing the support of Blastus, a trusted personal servant of the king, they asked for peace, because they depended on the king’s country for their food supply. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_21"> <sup>21</sup>On the appointed day Herod, wearing his royal robes, sat on his throne and delivered a public address to the people. </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_22"><sup>22</sup>They shouted, “This is the voice of a god, not of a man.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_12_23"><sup>23</sup>Immediately, because Herod did not give praise to God, an angel of the Lord struck him down, and he was eaten by worms and died. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_24"> <sup>24</sup>But the word of God continued to spread and flourish. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_12_25"> <sup>25</sup>When Barnabas and Saul had finished their mission, they returned from<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts to">⚓</a> Jerusalem, taking with them John, also called Mark. <br/></span>
