---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\14.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>14</h1><h3>In Iconium </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_14_1"> <sup>1</sup>At Iconium Paul and Barnabas went as usual into the Jewish synagogue. There they spoke so effectively that a great number of Jews and Greeks believed. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_2"><sup>2</sup>But the Jews who refused to believe stirred up the other Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_3"><sup>3</sup>So Paul and Barnabas spent considerable time there, speaking boldly for the Lord, who confirmed the message of his grace by enabling them to perform signs and wonders. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_4"><sup>4</sup>The people of the city were divided; some sided with the Jews, others with the apostles. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_5"><sup>5</sup>There was a plot afoot among both Gentiles and Jews, together with their leaders, to mistreat them and stone them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_6"><sup>6</sup>But they found out about it and fled to the Lycaonian cities of Lystra and Derbe and to the surrounding country, </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_7"><sup>7</sup>where they continued to preach the gospel. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>In Lystra and Derbe </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_14_8"> <sup>8</sup>In Lystra there sat a man who was lame. He had been that way from birth and had never walked. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_9"><sup>9</sup>He listened to Paul as he was speaking. Paul looked directly at him, saw that he had faith to be healed </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_10"><sup>10</sup>and called out, “Stand up on your feet!” At that, the man jumped up and began to walk. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_14_11"> <sup>11</sup>When the crowd saw what Paul had done, they shouted in the Lycaonian language, “The gods have come down to us in human form!” </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_12"><sup>12</sup>Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul they called Hermes because he was the chief speaker. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_13"><sup>13</sup>The priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside the city, brought bulls and wreaths to the city gates because he and the crowd wanted to offer sacrifices to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_14_14"> <sup>14</sup>But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of this, they tore their clothes and rushed out into the crowd, shouting: </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_15"><sup>15</sup>“Friends, why are you doing this? We too are only human, like you. We are bringing you good news, telling you to turn from these worthless things to the living God, who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything in them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_16"><sup>16</sup>In the past, he let all nations go their own way. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_17"><sup>17</sup>Yet he has not left himself without testimony: He has shown kindness by giving you rain from heaven and crops in their seasons; he provides you with plenty of food and fills your hearts with joy.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_18"><sup>18</sup>Even with these words, they had difficulty keeping the crowd from sacrificing to them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_14_19"> <sup>19</sup>Then some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium and won the crowd over. They stoned Paul and dragged him outside the city, thinking he was dead. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_20"><sup>20</sup>But after the disciples had gathered around him, he got up and went back into the city. The next day he and Barnabas left for Derbe. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Return to Antioch in Syria </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_14_21"> <sup>21</sup>They preached the gospel in that city and won a large number of disciples. Then they returned to Lystra, Iconium and Antioch, </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_22"><sup>22</sup>strengthening the disciples and encouraging them to remain true to the faith. “We must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God,” they said. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_23"><sup>23</sup>Paul and Barnabas appointed elders<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Barnabas ordained elders ; or Barnabas had elders elected">⚓</a> for them in each church and, with prayer and fasting, committed them to the Lord, in whom they had put their trust. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_24"><sup>24</sup>After going through Pisidia, they came into Pamphylia, </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_25"><sup>25</sup>and when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_14_26"> <sup>26</sup>From Attalia they sailed back to Antioch, where they had been committed to the grace of God for the work they had now completed. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_27"><sup>27</sup>On arriving there, they gathered the church together and reported all that God had done through them and how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles. </span>
<span class="verse cong_14_28"><sup>28</sup>And they stayed there a long time with the disciples. <br/></span>
