---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>The Council at Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>Certain people came down from Judea to Antioch and were teaching the believers: “Unless you are circumcised, according to the custom taught by Moses, you cannot be saved.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_2"><sup>2</sup>This brought Paul and Barnabas into sharp dispute and debate with them. So Paul and Barnabas were appointed, along with some other believers, to go up to Jerusalem to see the apostles and elders about this question. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_3"><sup>3</sup>The church sent them on their way, and as they traveled through Phoenicia and Samaria, they told how the Gentiles had been converted. This news made all the believers very glad. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_4"><sup>4</sup>When they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and elders, to whom they reported everything God had done through them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then some of the believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees stood up and said, “The Gentiles must be circumcised and required to keep the law of Moses.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_6"> <sup>6</sup>The apostles and elders met to consider this question. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_7"><sup>7</sup>After much discussion, Peter got up and addressed them: “Brothers, you know that some time ago God made a choice among you that the Gentiles might hear from my lips the message of the gospel and believe. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_8"><sup>8</sup>God, who knows the heart, showed that he accepted them by giving the Holy Spirit to them, just as he did to us. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_9"><sup>9</sup>He did not discriminate between us and them, for he purified their hearts by faith. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_10"><sup>10</sup>Now then, why do you try to test God by putting on the necks of Gentiles a yoke that neither we nor our ancestors have been able to bear? </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_11"><sup>11</sup>No! We believe it is through the grace of our Lord Jesus that we are saved, just as they are.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_12"> <sup>12</sup>The whole assembly became silent as they listened to Barnabas and Paul telling about the signs and wonders God had done among the Gentiles through them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_13"><sup>13</sup>When they finished, James spoke up. “Brothers,” he said, “listen to me. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_14"><sup>14</sup>Simon<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Greek Simeon , a variant of Simon ; that is, Peter">⚓</a> has described to us how God first intervened to choose a people for his name from the Gentiles. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_15"><sup>15</sup>The words of the prophets are in agreement with this, as it is written: <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_16">  <sup>16</sup>“ ‘After this I will return <br/>   and rebuild David’s fallen tent. <br/>  Its ruins I will rebuild, <br/>   and I will restore it, <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_17">  <sup>17</sup>that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord, <br/>   even all the Gentiles who bear my name, <br/>  says the Lord, who does these things’<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Amos 9:11,12 (see Septuagint)">⚓</a> — <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_18">   <sup>18</sup>things known from long ago.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts things’— / 18the Lord’s work is known to him from long ago">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_19"> <sup>19</sup>“It is my judgment, therefore, that we should not make it difficult for the Gentiles who are turning to God. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_20"><sup>20</sup>Instead we should write to them, telling them to abstain from food polluted by idols, from sexual immorality, from the meat of strangled animals and from blood. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_21"><sup>21</sup>For the law of Moses has been preached in every city from the earliest times and is read in the synagogues on every Sabbath.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Council’s Letter to Gentile Believers </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_15_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then the apostles and elders, with the whole church, decided to choose some of their own men and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They chose Judas (called Barsabbas) and Silas, men who were leaders among the believers. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_23"><sup>23</sup>With them they sent the following letter: <br/> The apostles and elders, your brothers, <br/> To the Gentile believers in Antioch, Syria and Cilicia: <br/> Greetings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_24"> <sup>24</sup>We have heard that some went out from us without our authorization and disturbed you, troubling your minds by what they said. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_25"><sup>25</sup>So we all agreed to choose some men and send them to you with our dear friends Barnabas and Paul— </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_26"><sup>26</sup>men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_27"><sup>27</sup>Therefore we are sending Judas and Silas to confirm by word of mouth what we are writing. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_28"><sup>28</sup>It seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us not to burden you with anything beyond the following requirements: </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_29"><sup>29</sup>You are to abstain from food sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the meat of strangled animals and from sexual immorality. You will do well to avoid these things. <br/> <aside style="text-align:center;">Farewell. </aside><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_30"> <sup>30</sup>So the men were sent off and went down to Antioch, where they gathered the church together and delivered the letter. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_31"><sup>31</sup>The people read it and were glad for its encouraging message. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_32"><sup>32</sup>Judas and Silas, who themselves were prophets, said much to encourage and strengthen the believers. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_33"><sup>33</sup>After spending some time there, they were sent off by the believers with the blessing of peace to return to those who had sent them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_34"><sup>[34]</sup><a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts include here But Silas decided to remain there.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse cong_15_35"><sup>35</sup>But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, where they and many others taught and preached the word of the Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Disagreement Between Paul and Barnabas </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_15_36"> <sup>36</sup>Some time later Paul said to Barnabas, “Let us go back and visit the believers in all the towns where we preached the word of the Lord and see how they are doing.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_37"><sup>37</sup>Barnabas wanted to take John, also called Mark, with them, </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_38"><sup>38</sup>but Paul did not think it wise to take him, because he had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not continued with them in the work. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_39"><sup>39</sup>They had such a sharp disagreement that they parted company. Barnabas took Mark and sailed for Cyprus, </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_40"><sup>40</sup>but Paul chose Silas and left, commended by the believers to the grace of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse cong_15_41"><sup>41</sup>He went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches. <br/></span>
