---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\16.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>16</h1><h3>Timothy Joins Paul and Silas </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_16_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul came to Derbe and then to Lystra, where a disciple named Timothy lived, whose mother was Jewish and a believer but whose father was a Greek. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_2"><sup>2</sup>The believers at Lystra and Iconium spoke well of him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_3"><sup>3</sup>Paul wanted to take him along on the journey, so he circumcised him because of the Jews who lived in that area, for they all knew that his father was a Greek. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_4"><sup>4</sup>As they traveled from town to town, they delivered the decisions reached by the apostles and elders in Jerusalem for the people to obey. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_5"><sup>5</sup>So the churches were strengthened in the faith and grew daily in numbers. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Vision of the Man of Macedonia </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_16_6"> <sup>6</sup>Paul and his companions traveled throughout the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been kept by the Holy Spirit from preaching the word in the province of Asia. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_7"><sup>7</sup>When they came to the border of Mysia, they tried to enter Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus would not allow them to. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_8"><sup>8</sup>So they passed by Mysia and went down to Troas. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_9"><sup>9</sup>During the night Paul had a vision of a man of Macedonia standing and begging him, “Come over to Macedonia and help us.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_10"><sup>10</sup>After Paul had seen the vision, we got ready at once to leave for Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Lydia’s Conversion in Philippi </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_16_11"> <sup>11</sup>From Troas we put out to sea and sailed straight for Samothrace, and the next day we went on to Neapolis. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_12"><sup>12</sup>From there we traveled to Philippi, a Roman colony and the leading city of that district<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The text and meaning of the Greek for the leading city of that district are uncertain.">⚓</a> of Macedonia. And we stayed there several days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_13"> <sup>13</sup>On the Sabbath we went outside the city gate to the river, where we expected to find a place of prayer. We sat down and began to speak to the women who had gathered there. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_14"><sup>14</sup>One of those listening was a woman from the city of Thyatira named Lydia, a dealer in purple cloth. She was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to respond to Paul’s message. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_15"><sup>15</sup>When she and the members of her household were baptized, she invited us to her home. “If you consider me a believer in the Lord,” she said, “come and stay at my house.” And she persuaded us. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul and Silas in Prison </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_16_16"> <sup>16</sup>Once when we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a female slave who had a spirit by which she predicted the future. She earned a great deal of money for her owners by fortune-telling. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_17"><sup>17</sup>She followed Paul and the rest of us, shouting, “These men are servants of the Most High God, who are telling you the way to be saved.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_18"><sup>18</sup>She kept this up for many days. Finally Paul became so annoyed that he turned around and said to the spirit, “In the name of Jesus Christ I command you to come out of her!” At that moment the spirit left her. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_19"> <sup>19</sup>When her owners realized that their hope of making money was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to face the authorities. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_20"><sup>20</sup>They brought them before the magistrates and said, “These men are Jews, and are throwing our city into an uproar </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_21"><sup>21</sup>by advocating customs unlawful for us Romans to accept or practice.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_22"> <sup>22</sup>The crowd joined in the attack against Paul and Silas, and the magistrates ordered them to be stripped and beaten with rods. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_23"><sup>23</sup>After they had been severely flogged, they were thrown into prison, and the jailer was commanded to guard them carefully. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_24"><sup>24</sup>When he received these orders, he put them in the inner cell and fastened their feet in the stocks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_25"> <sup>25</sup>About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the other prisoners were listening to them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_26"><sup>26</sup>Suddenly there was such a violent earthquake that the foundations of the prison were shaken. At once all the prison doors flew open, and everyone’s chains came loose. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_27"><sup>27</sup>The jailer woke up, and when he saw the prison doors open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself because he thought the prisoners had escaped. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_28"><sup>28</sup>But Paul shouted, “Don’t harm yourself! We are all here!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_29"> <sup>29</sup>The jailer called for lights, rushed in and fell trembling before Paul and Silas. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_30"><sup>30</sup>He then brought them out and asked, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_31"> <sup>31</sup>They replied, “Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved—you and your household.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_32"><sup>32</sup>Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all the others in his house. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_33"><sup>33</sup>At that hour of the night the jailer took them and washed their wounds; then immediately he and all his household were baptized. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_34"><sup>34</sup>The jailer brought them into his house and set a meal before them; he was filled with joy because he had come to believe in God—he and his whole household. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_35"> <sup>35</sup>When it was daylight, the magistrates sent their officers to the jailer with the order: “Release those men.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_36"><sup>36</sup>The jailer told Paul, “The magistrates have ordered that you and Silas be released. Now you can leave. Go in peace.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_37"> <sup>37</sup>But Paul said to the officers: “They beat us publicly without a trial, even though we are Roman citizens, and threw us into prison. And now do they want to get rid of us quietly? No! Let them come themselves and escort us out.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_16_38"> <sup>38</sup>The officers reported this to the magistrates, and when they heard that Paul and Silas were Roman citizens, they were alarmed. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_39"><sup>39</sup>They came to appease them and escorted them from the prison, requesting them to leave the city. </span>
<span class="verse cong_16_40"><sup>40</sup>After Paul and Silas came out of the prison, they went to Lydia’s house, where they met with the brothers and sisters and encouraged them. Then they left. <br/></span>
