---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\18.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>18</h1><h3>In Corinth </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_18_1"> <sup>1</sup>After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_2"><sup>2</sup>There he met a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had ordered all Jews to leave Rome. Paul went to see them, </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_3"><sup>3</sup>and because he was a tentmaker as they were, he stayed and worked with them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_4"><sup>4</sup>Every Sabbath he reasoned in the synagogue, trying to persuade Jews and Greeks. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_5"> <sup>5</sup>When Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia, Paul devoted himself exclusively to preaching, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Messiah. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_6"><sup>6</sup>But when they opposed Paul and became abusive, he shook out his clothes in protest and said to them, “Your blood be on your own heads! I am innocent of it. From now on I will go to the Gentiles.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_7"> <sup>7</sup>Then Paul left the synagogue and went next door to the house of Titius Justus, a worshiper of God. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_8"><sup>8</sup>Crispus, the synagogue leader, and his entire household believed in the Lord; and many of the Corinthians who heard Paul believed and were baptized. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_9"> <sup>9</sup>One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision: <font color="red">“Do not be afraid; keep on speaking, do not be silent.</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_10"><sup>10</sup><font color="red">For I am with you, and no one is going to attack and harm you, because I have many people in this city.”</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_11"><sup>11</sup>So Paul stayed in Corinth for a year and a half, teaching them the word of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_12"> <sup>12</sup>While Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews of Corinth made a united attack on Paul and brought him to the place of judgment. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_13"><sup>13</sup>“This man,” they charged, “is persuading the people to worship God in ways contrary to the law.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_14"> <sup>14</sup>Just as Paul was about to speak, Gallio said to them, “If you Jews were making a complaint about some misdemeanor or serious crime, it would be reasonable for me to listen to you. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_15"><sup>15</sup>But since it involves questions about words and names and your own law—settle the matter yourselves. I will not be a judge of such things.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_16"><sup>16</sup>So he drove them off. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_17"><sup>17</sup>Then the crowd there turned on Sosthenes the synagogue leader and beat him in front of the proconsul; and Gallio showed no concern whatever. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Priscilla, Aquila and Apollos </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_18_18"> <sup>18</sup>Paul stayed on in Corinth for some time. Then he left the brothers and sisters and sailed for Syria, accompanied by Priscilla and Aquila. Before he sailed, he had his hair cut off at Cenchreae because of a vow he had taken. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_19"><sup>19</sup>They arrived at Ephesus, where Paul left Priscilla and Aquila. He himself went into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_20"><sup>20</sup>When they asked him to spend more time with them, he declined. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_21"><sup>21</sup>But as he left, he promised, “I will come back if it is God’s will.” Then he set sail from Ephesus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_22"><sup>22</sup>When he landed at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem and greeted the church and then went down to Antioch. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_23"> <sup>23</sup>After spending some time in Antioch, Paul set out from there and traveled from place to place throughout the region of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_24"> <sup>24</sup>Meanwhile a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was a learned man, with a thorough knowledge of the Scriptures. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_25"><sup>25</sup>He had been instructed in the way of the Lord, and he spoke with great fervor<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or with fervor in the Spirit">⚓</a> and taught about Jesus accurately, though he knew only the baptism of John. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_26"><sup>26</sup>He began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they invited him to their home and explained to him the way of God more adequately. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_18_27"> <sup>27</sup>When Apollos wanted to go to Achaia, the brothers and sisters encouraged him and wrote to the disciples there to welcome him. When he arrived, he was a great help to those who by grace had believed. </span>
<span class="verse cong_18_28"><sup>28</sup>For he vigorously refuted his Jewish opponents in public debate, proving from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah. <br/></span>
