---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1><h3>Paul in Ephesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>While Apollos was at Corinth, Paul took the road through the interior and arrived at Ephesus. There he found some disciples </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_2"><sup>2</sup>and asked them, “Did you receive the Holy Spirit when<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or after">⚓</a> you believed?” <br/> They answered, “No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_3"> <sup>3</sup>So Paul asked, “Then what baptism did you receive?” <br/> “John’s baptism,” they replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_4"> <sup>4</sup>Paul said, “John’s baptism was a baptism of repentance. He told the people to believe in the one coming after him, that is, in Jesus.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_5"><sup>5</sup>On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_6"><sup>6</sup>When Paul placed his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke in tongues<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or other languages">⚓</a> and prophesied. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_7"><sup>7</sup>There were about twelve men in all. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_8"> <sup>8</sup>Paul entered the synagogue and spoke boldly there for three months, arguing persuasively about the kingdom of God. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_9"><sup>9</sup>But some of them became obstinate; they refused to believe and publicly maligned the Way. So Paul left them. He took the disciples with him and had discussions daily in the lecture hall of Tyrannus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_10"><sup>10</sup>This went on for two years, so that all the Jews and Greeks who lived in the province of Asia heard the word of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_11"> <sup>11</sup>God did extraordinary miracles through Paul, </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_12"><sup>12</sup>so that even handkerchiefs and aprons that had touched him were taken to the sick, and their illnesses were cured and the evil spirits left them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_13"> <sup>13</sup>Some Jews who went around driving out evil spirits tried to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who were demon-possessed. They would say, “In the name of the Jesus whom Paul preaches, I command you to come out.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_14"><sup>14</sup>Seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, were doing this. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_15"><sup>15</sup>One day the evil spirit answered them, “Jesus I know, and Paul I know about, but who are you?” </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_16"><sup>16</sup>Then the man who had the evil spirit jumped on them and overpowered them all. He gave them such a beating that they ran out of the house naked and bleeding. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_17"> <sup>17</sup>When this became known to the Jews and Greeks living in Ephesus, they were all seized with fear, and the name of the Lord Jesus was held in high honor. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_18"><sup>18</sup>Many of those who believed now came and openly confessed what they had done. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_19"><sup>19</sup>A number who had practiced sorcery brought their scrolls together and burned them publicly. When they calculated the value of the scrolls, the total came to fifty thousand drachmas.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A drachma was a silver coin worth about a day’s wages.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_20"><sup>20</sup>In this way the word of the Lord spread widely and grew in power. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_21"> <sup>21</sup>After all this had happened, Paul decided<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or decided in the Spirit">⚓</a> to go to Jerusalem, passing through Macedonia and Achaia. “After I have been there,” he said, “I must visit Rome also.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_22"><sup>22</sup>He sent two of his helpers, Timothy and Erastus, to Macedonia, while he stayed in the province of Asia a little longer. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Riot in Ephesus </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_19_23"> <sup>23</sup>About that time there arose a great disturbance about the Way. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_24"><sup>24</sup>A silversmith named Demetrius, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought in a lot of business for the craftsmen there. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_25"><sup>25</sup>He called them together, along with the workers in related trades, and said: “You know, my friends, that we receive a good income from this business. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_26"><sup>26</sup>And you see and hear how this fellow Paul has convinced and led astray large numbers of people here in Ephesus and in practically the whole province of Asia. He says that gods made by human hands are no gods at all. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_27"><sup>27</sup>There is danger not only that our trade will lose its good name, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be discredited; and the goddess herself, who is worshiped throughout the province of Asia and the world, will be robbed of her divine majesty.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_28"> <sup>28</sup>When they heard this, they were furious and began shouting: “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!” </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_29"><sup>29</sup>Soon the whole city was in an uproar. The people seized Gaius and Aristarchus, Paul’s traveling companions from Macedonia, and all of them rushed into the theater together. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_30"><sup>30</sup>Paul wanted to appear before the crowd, but the disciples would not let him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_31"><sup>31</sup>Even some of the officials of the province, friends of Paul, sent him a message begging him not to venture into the theater. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_32"> <sup>32</sup>The assembly was in confusion: Some were shouting one thing, some another. Most of the people did not even know why they were there. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_33"><sup>33</sup>The Jews in the crowd pushed Alexander to the front, and they shouted instructions to him. He motioned for silence in order to make a defense before the people. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_34"><sup>34</sup>But when they realized he was a Jew, they all shouted in unison for about two hours: “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_19_35"> <sup>35</sup>The city clerk quieted the crowd and said: “Fellow Ephesians, doesn’t all the world know that the city of Ephesus is the guardian of the temple of the great Artemis and of her image, which fell from heaven? </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_36"><sup>36</sup>Therefore, since these facts are undeniable, you ought to calm down and not do anything rash. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_37"><sup>37</sup>You have brought these men here, though they have neither robbed temples nor blasphemed our goddess. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_38"><sup>38</sup>If, then, Demetrius and his fellow craftsmen have a grievance against anybody, the courts are open and there are proconsuls. They can press charges. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_39"><sup>39</sup>If there is anything further you want to bring up, it must be settled in a legal assembly. </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_40"><sup>40</sup>As it is, we are in danger of being charged with rioting because of what happened today. In that case we would not be able to account for this commotion, since there is no reason for it.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_19_41"><sup>41</sup>After he had said this, he dismissed the assembly. <br/></span>
