---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\21.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>21</h1><h3>On to Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_21_1"> <sup>1</sup>After we had torn ourselves away from them, we put out to sea and sailed straight to Kos. The next day we went to Rhodes and from there to Patara. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_2"><sup>2</sup>We found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, went on board and set sail. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_3"><sup>3</sup>After sighting Cyprus and passing to the south of it, we sailed on to Syria. We landed at Tyre, where our ship was to unload its cargo. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_4"><sup>4</sup>We sought out the disciples there and stayed with them seven days. Through the Spirit they urged Paul not to go on to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_5"><sup>5</sup>When it was time to leave, we left and continued on our way. All of them, including wives and children, accompanied us out of the city, and there on the beach we knelt to pray. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_6"><sup>6</sup>After saying goodbye to each other, we went aboard the ship, and they returned home. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_7"> <sup>7</sup>We continued our voyage from Tyre and landed at Ptolemais, where we greeted the brothers and sisters and stayed with them for a day. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_8"><sup>8</sup>Leaving the next day, we reached Caesarea and stayed at the house of Philip the evangelist, one of the Seven. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_9"><sup>9</sup>He had four unmarried daughters who prophesied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_10"> <sup>10</sup>After we had been there a number of days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_11"><sup>11</sup>Coming over to us, he took Paul’s belt, tied his own hands and feet with it and said, “The Holy Spirit says, ‘In this way the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem will bind the owner of this belt and will hand him over to the Gentiles.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_12"> <sup>12</sup>When we heard this, we and the people there pleaded with Paul not to go up to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_13"><sup>13</sup>Then Paul answered, “Why are you weeping and breaking my heart? I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_14"><sup>14</sup>When he would not be dissuaded, we gave up and said, “The Lord’s will be done.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_15"> <sup>15</sup>After this, we started on our way up to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_16"><sup>16</sup>Some of the disciples from Caesarea accompanied us and brought us to the home of Mnason, where we were to stay. He was a man from Cyprus and one of the early disciples. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Arrival at Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_21_17"> <sup>17</sup>When we arrived at Jerusalem, the brothers and sisters received us warmly. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_18"><sup>18</sup>The next day Paul and the rest of us went to see James, and all the elders were present. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_19"><sup>19</sup>Paul greeted them and reported in detail what God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_20"> <sup>20</sup>When they heard this, they praised God. Then they said to Paul: “You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews have believed, and all of them are zealous for the law. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_21"><sup>21</sup>They have been informed that you teach all the Jews who live among the Gentiles to turn away from Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or live according to our customs. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_22"><sup>22</sup>What shall we do? They will certainly hear that you have come, </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_23"><sup>23</sup>so do what we tell you. There are four men with us who have made a vow. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_24"><sup>24</sup>Take these men, join in their purification rites and pay their expenses, so that they can have their heads shaved. Then everyone will know there is no truth in these reports about you, but that you yourself are living in obedience to the law. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_25"><sup>25</sup>As for the Gentile believers, we have written to them our decision that they should abstain from food sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the meat of strangled animals and from sexual immorality.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_26"> <sup>26</sup>The next day Paul took the men and purified himself along with them. Then he went to the temple to give notice of the date when the days of purification would end and the offering would be made for each of them. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul Arrested </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_21_27"> <sup>27</sup>When the seven days were nearly over, some Jews from the province of Asia saw Paul at the temple. They stirred up the whole crowd and seized him, </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_28"><sup>28</sup>shouting, “Fellow Israelites, help us! This is the man who teaches everyone everywhere against our people and our law and this place. And besides, he has brought Greeks into the temple and defiled this holy place.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_29"><sup>29</sup>(They had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with Paul and assumed that Paul had brought him into the temple.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_30"> <sup>30</sup>The whole city was aroused, and the people came running from all directions. Seizing Paul, they dragged him from the temple, and immediately the gates were shut. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_31"><sup>31</sup>While they were trying to kill him, news reached the commander of the Roman troops that the whole city of Jerusalem was in an uproar. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_32"><sup>32</sup>He at once took some officers and soldiers and ran down to the crowd. When the rioters saw the commander and his soldiers, they stopped beating Paul. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_33"> <sup>33</sup>The commander came up and arrested him and ordered him to be bound with two chains. Then he asked who he was and what he had done. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_34"><sup>34</sup>Some in the crowd shouted one thing and some another, and since the commander could not get at the truth because of the uproar, he ordered that Paul be taken into the barracks. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_35"><sup>35</sup>When Paul reached the steps, the violence of the mob was so great he had to be carried by the soldiers. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_36"><sup>36</sup>The crowd that followed kept shouting, “Get rid of him!” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul Speaks to the Crowd </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_21_37"> <sup>37</sup>As the soldiers were about to take Paul into the barracks, he asked the commander, “May I say something to you?” <br/> “Do you speak Greek?” he replied. </span>
<span class="verse cong_21_38"><sup>38</sup>“Aren’t you the Egyptian who started a revolt and led four thousand terrorists out into the wilderness some time ago?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_39"> <sup>39</sup>Paul answered, “I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no ordinary city. Please let me speak to the people.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_21_40"> <sup>40</sup>After receiving the commander’s permission, Paul stood on the steps and motioned to the crowd. When they were all silent, he said to them in Aramaic<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or possibly Hebrew ; also in 22:2">⚓</a> : <br/></span>
