---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1></div>
<span class="verse cong_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>“Brothers and fathers, listen now to my defense.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_2"> <sup>2</sup>When they heard him speak to them in Aramaic, they became very quiet. <br/> Then Paul said: </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_3"><sup>3</sup>“I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city. I studied under Gamaliel and was thoroughly trained in the law of our ancestors. I was just as zealous for God as any of you are today. </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_4"><sup>4</sup>I persecuted the followers of this Way to their death, arresting both men and women and throwing them into prison, </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_5"><sup>5</sup>as the high priest and all the Council can themselves testify. I even obtained letters from them to their associates in Damascus, and went there to bring these people as prisoners to Jerusalem to be punished. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_6"> <sup>6</sup>“About noon as I came near Damascus, suddenly a bright light from heaven flashed around me. </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_7"><sup>7</sup>I fell to the ground and heard a voice say to me, <font color="red">‘Saul! Saul! Why do you persecute me?’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_8"> <sup>8</sup>“ ‘Who are you, Lord?’ I asked. <br/> “ <font color="red">‘I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting,’</font> he replied. </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_9"><sup>9</sup>My companions saw the light, but they did not understand the voice of him who was speaking to me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_10"> <sup>10</sup>“ ‘What shall I do, Lord?’ I asked. <br/> “ <font color="red">‘Get up,’</font> the Lord said, <font color="red">‘and go into Damascus. There you will be told all that you have been assigned to do.’</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_11"><sup>11</sup>My companions led me by the hand into Damascus, because the brilliance of the light had blinded me. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_12"> <sup>12</sup>“A man named Ananias came to see me. He was a devout observer of the law and highly respected by all the Jews living there. </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_13"><sup>13</sup>He stood beside me and said, ‘Brother Saul, receive your sight!’ And at that very moment I was able to see him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_14"> <sup>14</sup>“Then he said: ‘The God of our ancestors has chosen you to know his will and to see the Righteous One and to hear words from his mouth. </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_15"><sup>15</sup>You will be his witness to all people of what you have seen and heard. </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_16"><sup>16</sup>And now what are you waiting for? Get up, be baptized and wash your sins away, calling on his name.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_17"> <sup>17</sup>“When I returned to Jerusalem and was praying at the temple, I fell into a trance </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_18"><sup>18</sup>and saw the Lord speaking to me. <font color="red">‘Quick!’</font> he said. <font color="red">‘Leave Jerusalem immediately, because the people here will not accept your testimony about me.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_19"> <sup>19</sup>“ ‘Lord,’ I replied, ‘these people know that I went from one synagogue to another to imprison and beat those who believe in you. </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_20"><sup>20</sup>And when the blood of your martyr<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or witness">⚓</a> Stephen was shed, I stood there giving my approval and guarding the clothes of those who were killing him.’ <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_21"> <sup>21</sup>“Then the Lord said to me, <font color="red">‘Go; I will send you far away to the Gentiles.’ </font>” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul the Roman Citizen </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_22_22"> <sup>22</sup>The crowd listened to Paul until he said this. Then they raised their voices and shouted, “Rid the earth of him! He’s not fit to live!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_23"> <sup>23</sup>As they were shouting and throwing off their cloaks and flinging dust into the air, </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_24"><sup>24</sup>the commander ordered that Paul be taken into the barracks. He directed that he be flogged and interrogated in order to find out why the people were shouting at him like this. </span>
<span class="verse cong_22_25"><sup>25</sup>As they stretched him out to flog him, Paul said to the centurion standing there, “Is it legal for you to flog a Roman citizen who hasn’t even been found guilty?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_26"> <sup>26</sup>When the centurion heard this, he went to the commander and reported it. “What are you going to do?” he asked. “This man is a Roman citizen.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_27"> <sup>27</sup>The commander went to Paul and asked, “Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?” <br/> “Yes, I am,” he answered. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then the commander said, “I had to pay a lot of money for my citizenship.” <br/> “But I was born a citizen,” Paul replied. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_29"> <sup>29</sup>Those who were about to interrogate him withdrew immediately. The commander himself was alarmed when he realized that he had put Paul, a Roman citizen, in chains. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_22_30"> <sup>30</sup>The commander wanted to find out exactly why Paul was being accused by the Jews. So the next day he released him and ordered the chief priests and all the members of the Sanhedrin to assemble. Then he brought Paul and had him stand before them. <br/></span>
