---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1><h3>Paul’s Trial Before Festus </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_25_1"> <sup>1</sup>Three days after arriving in the province, Festus went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem, </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_2"><sup>2</sup>where the chief priests and the Jewish leaders appeared before him and presented the charges against Paul. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_3"><sup>3</sup>They requested Festus, as a favor to them, to have Paul transferred to Jerusalem, for they were preparing an ambush to kill him along the way. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_4"><sup>4</sup>Festus answered, “Paul is being held at Caesarea, and I myself am going there soon. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_5"><sup>5</sup>Let some of your leaders come with me, and if the man has done anything wrong, they can press charges against him there.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_25_6"> <sup>6</sup>After spending eight or ten days with them, Festus went down to Caesarea. The next day he convened the court and ordered that Paul be brought before him. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_7"><sup>7</sup>When Paul came in, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him. They brought many serious charges against him, but they could not prove them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_25_8"> <sup>8</sup>Then Paul made his defense: “I have done nothing wrong against the Jewish law or against the temple or against Caesar.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_25_9"> <sup>9</sup>Festus, wishing to do the Jews a favor, said to Paul, “Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and stand trial before me there on these charges?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_25_10"> <sup>10</sup>Paul answered: “I am now standing before Caesar’s court, where I ought to be tried. I have not done any wrong to the Jews, as you yourself know very well. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_11"><sup>11</sup>If, however, I am guilty of doing anything deserving death, I do not refuse to die. But if the charges brought against me by these Jews are not true, no one has the right to hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar!” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_25_12"> <sup>12</sup>After Festus had conferred with his council, he declared: “You have appealed to Caesar. To Caesar you will go!” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Festus Consults King Agrippa </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_25_13"> <sup>13</sup>A few days later King Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea to pay their respects to Festus. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_14"><sup>14</sup>Since they were spending many days there, Festus discussed Paul’s case with the king. He said: “There is a man here whom Felix left as a prisoner. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_15"><sup>15</sup>When I went to Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews brought charges against him and asked that he be condemned. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_25_16"> <sup>16</sup>“I told them that it is not the Roman custom to hand over anyone before they have faced their accusers and have had an opportunity to defend themselves against the charges. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_17"><sup>17</sup>When they came here with me, I did not delay the case, but convened the court the next day and ordered the man to be brought in. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_18"><sup>18</sup>When his accusers got up to speak, they did not charge him with any of the crimes I had expected. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_19"><sup>19</sup>Instead, they had some points of dispute with him about their own religion and about a dead man named Jesus who Paul claimed was alive. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_20"><sup>20</sup>I was at a loss how to investigate such matters; so I asked if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem and stand trial there on these charges. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_21"><sup>21</sup>But when Paul made his appeal to be held over for the Emperor’s decision, I ordered him held until I could send him to Caesar.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_25_22"> <sup>22</sup>Then Agrippa said to Festus, “I would like to hear this man myself.” <br/> He replied, “Tomorrow you will hear him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_25_23"> <sup>23</sup>The next day Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp and entered the audience room with the high-ranking military officers and the prominent men of the city. At the command of Festus, Paul was brought in. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_24"><sup>24</sup>Festus said: “King Agrippa, and all who are present with us, you see this man! The whole Jewish community has petitioned me about him in Jerusalem and here in Caesarea, shouting that he ought not to live any longer. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_25"><sup>25</sup>I found he had done nothing deserving of death, but because he made his appeal to the Emperor I decided to send him to Rome. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_26"><sup>26</sup>But I have nothing definite to write to His Majesty about him. Therefore I have brought him before all of you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that as a result of this investigation I may have something to write. </span>
<span class="verse cong_25_27"><sup>27</sup>For I think it is unreasonable to send a prisoner on to Rome without specifying the charges against him.” <br/></span>
