---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\26.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>26</h1><h3>Paul Before Agrippa </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_26_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then Agrippa said to Paul, “You have permission to speak for yourself.” <br/> So Paul motioned with his hand and began his defense: </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_2"><sup>2</sup>“King Agrippa, I consider myself fortunate to stand before you today as I make my defense against all the accusations of the Jews, </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_3"><sup>3</sup>and especially so because you are well acquainted with all the Jewish customs and controversies. Therefore, I beg you to listen to me patiently. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_4"> <sup>4</sup>“The Jewish people all know the way I have lived ever since I was a child, from the beginning of my life in my own country, and also in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_5"><sup>5</sup>They have known me for a long time and can testify, if they are willing, that I conformed to the strictest sect of our religion, living as a Pharisee. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_6"><sup>6</sup>And now it is because of my hope in what God has promised our ancestors that I am on trial today. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_7"><sup>7</sup>This is the promise our twelve tribes are hoping to see fulfilled as they earnestly serve God day and night. King Agrippa, it is because of this hope that these Jews are accusing me. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_8"><sup>8</sup>Why should any of you consider it incredible that God raises the dead? <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_9"> <sup>9</sup>“I too was convinced that I ought to do all that was possible to oppose the name of Jesus of Nazareth. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_10"><sup>10</sup>And that is just what I did in Jerusalem. On the authority of the chief priests I put many of the Lord’s people in prison, and when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_11"><sup>11</sup>Many a time I went from one synagogue to another to have them punished, and I tried to force them to blaspheme. I was so obsessed with persecuting them that I even hunted them down in foreign cities. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_12"> <sup>12</sup>“On one of these journeys I was going to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_13"><sup>13</sup>About noon, King Agrippa, as I was on the road, I saw a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, blazing around me and my companions. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_14"><sup>14</sup>We all fell to the ground, and I heard a voice saying to me in Aramaic,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Hebrew">⚓</a><font color="red">‘Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Then I asked, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ <br/> “ <font color="red">‘I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting,’</font> the Lord replied. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_16"><sup>16</sup><font color="red">‘Now get up and stand on your feet. I have appeared to you to appoint you as a servant and as a witness of what you have seen and will see of me.</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_17"><sup>17</sup><font color="red">I will rescue you from your own people and from the Gentiles. I am sending you to them</font></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_18"><sup>18</sup><font color="red">to open their eyes and turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, so that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.’</font><br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_19"> <sup>19</sup>“So then, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the vision from heaven. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_20"><sup>20</sup>First to those in Damascus, then to those in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and then to the Gentiles, I preached that they should repent and turn to God and demonstrate their repentance by their deeds. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_21"><sup>21</sup>That is why some Jews seized me in the temple courts and tried to kill me. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_22"><sup>22</sup>But God has helped me to this very day; so I stand here and testify to small and great alike. I am saying nothing beyond what the prophets and Moses said would happen— </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_23"><sup>23</sup>that the Messiah would suffer and, as the first to rise from the dead, would bring the message of light to his own people and to the Gentiles.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_24"> <sup>24</sup>At this point Festus interrupted Paul’s defense. “You are out of your mind, Paul!” he shouted. “Your great learning is driving you insane.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_25"> <sup>25</sup>“I am not insane, most excellent Festus,” Paul replied. “What I am saying is true and reasonable. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_26"><sup>26</sup>The king is familiar with these things, and I can speak freely to him. I am convinced that none of this has escaped his notice, because it was not done in a corner. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_27"><sup>27</sup>King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know you do.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_28"> <sup>28</sup>Then Agrippa said to Paul, “Do you think that in such a short time you can persuade me to be a Christian?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_29"> <sup>29</sup>Paul replied, “Short time or long—I pray to God that not only you but all who are listening to me today may become what I am, except for these chains.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_30"> <sup>30</sup>The king rose, and with him the governor and Bernice and those sitting with them. </span>
<span class="verse cong_26_31"><sup>31</sup>After they left the room, they began saying to one another, “This man is not doing anything that deserves death or imprisonment.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_26_32"> <sup>32</sup>Agrippa said to Festus, “This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar.” <br/></span>
