---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Acts 
bookNumber: 44
audio: \Audio\NIV\cong\27.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>27</h1><h3>Paul Sails for Rome </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_27_1"> <sup>1</sup>When it was decided that we would sail for Italy, Paul and some other prisoners were handed over to a centurion named Julius, who belonged to the Imperial Regiment. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_2"><sup>2</sup>We boarded a ship from Adramyttium about to sail for ports along the coast of the province of Asia, and we put out to sea. Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica, was with us. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_27_3"> <sup>3</sup>The next day we landed at Sidon; and Julius, in kindness to Paul, allowed him to go to his friends so they might provide for his needs. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_4"><sup>4</sup>From there we put out to sea again and passed to the lee of Cyprus because the winds were against us. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_5"><sup>5</sup>When we had sailed across the open sea off the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we landed at Myra in Lycia. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_6"><sup>6</sup>There the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing for Italy and put us on board. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_7"><sup>7</sup>We made slow headway for many days and had difficulty arriving off Cnidus. When the wind did not allow us to hold our course, we sailed to the lee of Crete, opposite Salmone. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_8"><sup>8</sup>We moved along the coast with difficulty and came to a place called Fair Havens, near the town of Lasea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_27_9"> <sup>9</sup>Much time had been lost, and sailing had already become dangerous because by now it was after the Day of Atonement.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Yom Kippur">⚓</a> So Paul warned them, </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_10"><sup>10</sup>“Men, I can see that our voyage is going to be disastrous and bring great loss to ship and cargo, and to our own lives also.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_11"><sup>11</sup>But the centurion, instead of listening to what Paul said, followed the advice of the pilot and of the owner of the ship. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_12"><sup>12</sup>Since the harbor was unsuitable to winter in, the majority decided that we should sail on, hoping to reach Phoenix and winter there. This was a harbor in Crete, facing both southwest and northwest. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Storm </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_27_13"> <sup>13</sup>When a gentle south wind began to blow, they saw their opportunity; so they weighed anchor and sailed along the shore of Crete. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_14"><sup>14</sup>Before very long, a wind of hurricane force, called the Northeaster, swept down from the island. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_15"><sup>15</sup>The ship was caught by the storm and could not head into the wind; so we gave way to it and were driven along. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_16"><sup>16</sup>As we passed to the lee of a small island called Cauda, we were hardly able to make the lifeboat secure, </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_17"><sup>17</sup>so the men hoisted it aboard. Then they passed ropes under the ship itself to hold it together. Because they were afraid they would run aground on the sandbars of Syrtis, they lowered the sea anchor<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the sails">⚓</a> and let the ship be driven along. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_18"><sup>18</sup>We took such a violent battering from the storm that the next day they began to throw the cargo overboard. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_19"><sup>19</sup>On the third day, they threw the ship’s tackle overboard with their own hands. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_20"><sup>20</sup>When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days and the storm continued raging, we finally gave up all hope of being saved. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_27_21"> <sup>21</sup>After they had gone a long time without food, Paul stood up before them and said: “Men, you should have taken my advice not to sail from Crete; then you would have spared yourselves this damage and loss. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_22"><sup>22</sup>But now I urge you to keep up your courage, because not one of you will be lost; only the ship will be destroyed. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_23"><sup>23</sup>Last night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood beside me </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_24"><sup>24</sup>and said, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul. You must stand trial before Caesar; and God has graciously given you the lives of all who sail with you.’ </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_25"><sup>25</sup>So keep up your courage, men, for I have faith in God that it will happen just as he told me. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_26"><sup>26</sup>Nevertheless, we must run aground on some island.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Shipwreck </h3></div>
<span class="verse cong_27_27"> <sup>27</sup>On the fourteenth night we were still being driven across the Adriatic<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In ancient times the name referred to an area extending well south of Italy.">⚓</a> Sea, when about midnight the sailors sensed they were approaching land. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_28"><sup>28</sup>They took soundings and found that the water was a hundred and twenty feet<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 37 meters">⚓</a> deep. A short time later they took soundings again and found it was ninety feet<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or about 27 meters">⚓</a> deep. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_29"><sup>29</sup>Fearing that we would be dashed against the rocks, they dropped four anchors from the stern and prayed for daylight. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_30"><sup>30</sup>In an attempt to escape from the ship, the sailors let the lifeboat down into the sea, pretending they were going to lower some anchors from the bow. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_31"><sup>31</sup>Then Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, “Unless these men stay with the ship, you cannot be saved.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_32"><sup>32</sup>So the soldiers cut the ropes that held the lifeboat and let it drift away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_27_33"> <sup>33</sup>Just before dawn Paul urged them all to eat. “For the last fourteen days,” he said, “you have been in constant suspense and have gone without food—you haven’t eaten anything. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_34"><sup>34</sup>Now I urge you to take some food. You need it to survive. Not one of you will lose a single hair from his head.” </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_35"><sup>35</sup>After he said this, he took some bread and gave thanks to God in front of them all. Then he broke it and began to eat. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_36"><sup>36</sup>They were all encouraged and ate some food themselves. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_37"><sup>37</sup>Altogether there were 276 of us on board. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_38"><sup>38</sup>When they had eaten as much as they wanted, they lightened the ship by throwing the grain into the sea. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_27_39"> <sup>39</sup>When daylight came, they did not recognize the land, but they saw a bay with a sandy beach, where they decided to run the ship aground if they could. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_40"><sup>40</sup>Cutting loose the anchors, they left them in the sea and at the same time untied the ropes that held the rudders. Then they hoisted the foresail to the wind and made for the beach. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_41"><sup>41</sup>But the ship struck a sandbar and ran aground. The bow stuck fast and would not move, and the stern was broken to pieces by the pounding of the surf. <br/></span>
<span class="verse cong_27_42"> <sup>42</sup>The soldiers planned to kill the prisoners to prevent any of them from swimming away and escaping. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_43"><sup>43</sup>But the centurion wanted to spare Paul’s life and kept them from carrying out their plan. He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and get to land. </span>
<span class="verse cong_27_44"><sup>44</sup>The rest were to get there on planks or on other pieces of the ship. In this way everyone reached land safely. <br/></span>
