---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Ezra 
bookNumber: 15
audio: \Audio\NIV\exo\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>The Decree of Darius </h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>King Darius then issued an order, and they searched in the archives stored in the treasury at Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_2"><sup>2</sup>A scroll was found in the citadel of Ecbatana in the province of Media, and this was written on it: <br/> Memorandum: <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_6_3"> <sup>3</sup>In the first year of King Cyrus, the king issued a decree concerning the temple of God in Jerusalem: <br/> Let the temple be rebuilt as a place to present sacrifices, and let its foundations be laid. It is to be sixty cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 90 feet or about 27 meters">⚓</a> high and sixty cubits wide, </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_4"><sup>4</sup>with three courses of large stones and one of timbers. The costs are to be paid by the royal treasury. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_5"><sup>5</sup>Also, the gold and silver articles of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took from the temple in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, are to be returned to their places in the temple in Jerusalem; they are to be deposited in the house of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>Now then, Tattenai, governor of Trans-Euphrates, and Shethar-Bozenai and you other officials of that province, stay away from there. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_7"><sup>7</sup>Do not interfere with the work on this temple of God. Let the governor of the Jews and the Jewish elders rebuild this house of God on its site. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_6_8"> <sup>8</sup>Moreover, I hereby decree what you are to do for these elders of the Jews in the construction of this house of God: <br/> Their expenses are to be fully paid out of the royal treasury, from the revenues of Trans-Euphrates, so that the work will not stop. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_9"><sup>9</sup>Whatever is needed—young bulls, rams, male lambs for burnt offerings to the God of heaven, and wheat, salt, wine and olive oil, as requested by the priests in Jerusalem—must be given them daily without fail, </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_10"><sup>10</sup>so that they may offer sacrifices pleasing to the God of heaven and pray for the well-being of the king and his sons. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>Furthermore, I decree that if anyone defies this edict, a beam is to be pulled from their house and they are to be impaled on it. And for this crime their house is to be made a pile of rubble. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_12"><sup>12</sup>May God, who has caused his Name to dwell there, overthrow any king or people who lifts a hand to change this decree or to destroy this temple in Jerusalem. <br/> I Darius have decreed it. Let it be carried out with diligence. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Completion and Dedication of the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_6_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then, because of the decree King Darius had sent, Tattenai, governor of Trans-Euphrates, and Shethar-Bozenai and their associates carried it out with diligence. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_14"><sup>14</sup>So the elders of the Jews continued to build and prosper under the preaching of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah, a descendant of Iddo. They finished building the temple according to the command of the God of Israel and the decrees of Cyrus, Darius and Artaxerxes, kings of Persia. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_15"><sup>15</sup>The temple was completed on the third day of the month Adar, in the sixth year of the reign of King Darius. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_6_16"> <sup>16</sup>Then the people of Israel—the priests, the Levites and the rest of the exiles—celebrated the dedication of the house of God with joy. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_17"><sup>17</sup>For the dedication of this house of God they offered a hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred male lambs and, as a sin offering<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering">⚓</a> for all Israel, twelve male goats, one for each of the tribes of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_18"><sup>18</sup>And they installed the priests in their divisions and the Levites in their groups for the service of God at Jerusalem, according to what is written in the Book of Moses. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Passover </h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_6_19"> <sup>19</sup>On the fourteenth day of the first month, the exiles celebrated the Passover. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_20"><sup>20</sup>The priests and Levites had purified themselves and were all ceremonially clean. The Levites slaughtered the Passover lamb for all the exiles, for their relatives the priests and for themselves. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_21"><sup>21</sup>So the Israelites who had returned from the exile ate it, together with all who had separated themselves from the unclean practices of their Gentile neighbors in order to seek the Lord, the God of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exo_6_22"><sup>22</sup>For seven days they celebrated with joy the Festival of Unleavened Bread, because the Lord had filled them with joy by changing the attitude of the king of Assyria so that he assisted them in the work on the house of God, the God of Israel. <br/></span>
