---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Ezra 
bookNumber: 15
audio: \Audio\NIV\exo\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>List of the Family Heads Returning With Ezra </h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>These are the family heads and those registered with them who came up with me from Babylon during the reign of King Artaxerxes: <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_2">  <sup>2</sup>of the descendants of Phinehas, Gershom; <br/>  of the descendants of Ithamar, Daniel; <br/>  of the descendants of David, Hattush </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_3"><sup>3</sup>of the descendants of Shekaniah; <br/>  of the descendants of Parosh, Zechariah, and with him were registered 150 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_4">  <sup>4</sup>of the descendants of Pahath-Moab, Eliehoenai son of Zerahiah, and with him 200 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_5">  <sup>5</sup>of the descendants of Zattu,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts (also 1 Esdras 8:32); Hebrew does not have Zattu.">⚓</a> Shekaniah son of Jahaziel, and with him 300 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_6">  <sup>6</sup>of the descendants of Adin, Ebed son of Jonathan, and with him 50 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_7">  <sup>7</sup>of the descendants of Elam, Jeshaiah son of Athaliah, and with him 70 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_8">  <sup>8</sup>of the descendants of Shephatiah, Zebadiah son of Michael, and with him 80 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_9">  <sup>9</sup>of the descendants of Joab, Obadiah son of Jehiel, and with him 218 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_10">  <sup>10</sup>of the descendants of Bani,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts (also 1 Esdras 8:36); Hebrew does not have Bani.">⚓</a> Shelomith son of Josiphiah, and with him 160 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_11">  <sup>11</sup>of the descendants of Bebai, Zechariah son of Bebai, and with him 28 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_12">  <sup>12</sup>of the descendants of Azgad, Johanan son of Hakkatan, and with him 110 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_13">  <sup>13</sup>of the descendants of Adonikam, the last ones, whose names were Eliphelet, Jeuel and Shemaiah, and with them 60 men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_14">  <sup>14</sup>of the descendants of Bigvai, Uthai and Zakkur, and with them 70 men. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Return to Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_8_15"> <sup>15</sup>I assembled them at the canal that flows toward Ahava, and we camped there three days. When I checked among the people and the priests, I found no Levites there. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_16"><sup>16</sup>So I summoned Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah and Meshullam, who were leaders, and Joiarib and Elnathan, who were men of learning, </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_17"><sup>17</sup>and I ordered them to go to Iddo, the leader in Kasiphia. I told them what to say to Iddo and his fellow Levites, the temple servants in Kasiphia, so that they might bring attendants to us for the house of our God. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_18"><sup>18</sup>Because the gracious hand of our God was on us, they brought us Sherebiah, a capable man, from the descendants of Mahli son of Levi, the son of Israel, and Sherebiah’s sons and brothers, 18 in all; </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_19"><sup>19</sup>and Hashabiah, together with Jeshaiah from the descendants of Merari, and his brothers and nephews, 20 in all. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_20"><sup>20</sup>They also brought 220 of the temple servants—a body that David and the officials had established to assist the Levites. All were registered by name. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_21"> <sup>21</sup>There, by the Ahava Canal, I proclaimed a fast, so that we might humble ourselves before our God and ask him for a safe journey for us and our children, with all our possessions. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_22"><sup>22</sup>I was ashamed to ask the king for soldiers and horsemen to protect us from enemies on the road, because we had told the king, “The gracious hand of our God is on everyone who looks to him, but his great anger is against all who forsake him.” </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_23"><sup>23</sup>So we fasted and petitioned our God about this, and he answered our prayer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_24"> <sup>24</sup>Then I set apart twelve of the leading priests, namely, Sherebiah, Hashabiah and ten of their brothers, </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_25"><sup>25</sup>and I weighed out to them the offering of silver and gold and the articles that the king, his advisers, his officials and all Israel present there had donated for the house of our God. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_26"><sup>26</sup>I weighed out to them 650 talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 24 tons or about 22 metric tons">⚓</a> of silver, silver articles weighing 100 talents,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 3/4 tons or about 3.4 metric tons">⚓</a> 100 talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 3/4 tons or about 3.4 metric tons">⚓</a> of gold, </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_27"><sup>27</sup>20 bowls of gold valued at 1,000 darics,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 19 pounds or about 8.4 kilograms">⚓</a> and two fine articles of polished bronze, as precious as gold. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_28"> <sup>28</sup>I said to them, “You as well as these articles are consecrated to the Lord. The silver and gold are a freewill offering to the Lord, the God of your ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_29"><sup>29</sup>Guard them carefully until you weigh them out in the chambers of the house of the Lord in Jerusalem before the leading priests and the Levites and the family heads of Israel.” </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_30"><sup>30</sup>Then the priests and Levites received the silver and gold and sacred articles that had been weighed out to be taken to the house of our God in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_31"> <sup>31</sup>On the twelfth day of the first month we set out from the Ahava Canal to go to Jerusalem. The hand of our God was on us, and he protected us from enemies and bandits along the way. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_32"><sup>32</sup>So we arrived in Jerusalem, where we rested three days. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_33"> <sup>33</sup>On the fourth day, in the house of our God, we weighed out the silver and gold and the sacred articles into the hands of Meremoth son of Uriah, the priest. Eleazar son of Phinehas was with him, and so were the Levites Jozabad son of Jeshua and Noadiah son of Binnui. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_34"><sup>34</sup>Everything was accounted for by number and weight, and the entire weight was recorded at that time. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_8_35"> <sup>35</sup>Then the exiles who had returned from captivity sacrificed burnt offerings to the God of Israel: twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven male lambs and, as a sin offering,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or purification offering">⚓</a> twelve male goats. All this was a burnt offering to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse exo_8_36"><sup>36</sup>They also delivered the king’s orders to the royal satraps and to the governors of Trans-Euphrates, who then gave assistance to the people and to the house of God. <br/></span>
