---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: Ezra 
bookNumber: 15
audio: \Audio\NIV\exo\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>The People’s Confession of Sin </h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>While Ezra was praying and confessing, weeping and throwing himself down before the house of God, a large crowd of Israelites—men, women and children—gathered around him. They too wept bitterly. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_2"><sup>2</sup>Then Shekaniah son of Jehiel, one of the descendants of Elam, said to Ezra, “We have been unfaithful to our God by marrying foreign women from the peoples around us. But in spite of this, there is still hope for Israel. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_3"><sup>3</sup>Now let us make a covenant before our God to send away all these women and their children, in accordance with the counsel of my lord and of those who fear the commands of our God. Let it be done according to the Law. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_4"><sup>4</sup>Rise up; this matter is in your hands. We will support you, so take courage and do it.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_5"> <sup>5</sup>So Ezra rose up and put the leading priests and Levites and all Israel under oath to do what had been suggested. And they took the oath. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_6"><sup>6</sup>Then Ezra withdrew from before the house of God and went to the room of Jehohanan son of Eliashib. While he was there, he ate no food and drank no water, because he continued to mourn over the unfaithfulness of the exiles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_7"> <sup>7</sup>A proclamation was then issued throughout Judah and Jerusalem for all the exiles to assemble in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_8"><sup>8</sup>Anyone who failed to appear within three days would forfeit all his property, in accordance with the decision of the officials and elders, and would himself be expelled from the assembly of the exiles. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_9"> <sup>9</sup>Within the three days, all the men of Judah and Benjamin had gathered in Jerusalem. And on the twentieth day of the ninth month, all the people were sitting in the square before the house of God, greatly distressed by the occasion and because of the rain. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_10"><sup>10</sup>Then Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, “You have been unfaithful; you have married foreign women, adding to Israel’s guilt. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_11"><sup>11</sup>Now honor<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Now make confession to">⚓</a> the Lord, the God of your ancestors, and do his will. Separate yourselves from the peoples around you and from your foreign wives.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>The whole assembly responded with a loud voice: “You are right! We must do as you say. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_13"><sup>13</sup>But there are many people here and it is the rainy season; so we cannot stand outside. Besides, this matter cannot be taken care of in a day or two, because we have sinned greatly in this thing. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_14"><sup>14</sup>Let our officials act for the whole assembly. Then let everyone in our towns who has married a foreign woman come at a set time, along with the elders and judges of each town, until the fierce anger of our God in this matter is turned away from us.” </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_15"><sup>15</sup>Only Jonathan son of Asahel and Jahzeiah son of Tikvah, supported by Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite, opposed this. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>So the exiles did as was proposed. Ezra the priest selected men who were family heads, one from each family division, and all of them designated by name. On the first day of the tenth month they sat down to investigate the cases, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_17"><sup>17</sup>and by the first day of the first month they finished dealing with all the men who had married foreign women. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Those Guilty of Intermarriage </h3></div>
<span class="verse exo_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>Among the descendants of the priests, the following had married foreign women: <br/>  From the descendants of Joshua son of Jozadak, and his brothers: Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib and Gedaliah. </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_19"><sup>19</sup>(They all gave their hands in pledge to put away their wives, and for their guilt they each presented a ram from the flock as a guilt offering.) <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_20">  <sup>20</sup>From the descendants of Immer: <br/>    Hanani and Zebadiah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_21">  <sup>21</sup>From the descendants of Harim: <br/>    Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel and Uzziah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_22">  <sup>22</sup>From the descendants of Pashhur: <br/>    Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad and Elasah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_23">  <sup>23</sup>Among the Levites: <br/>    Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (that is, Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah and Eliezer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_24">  <sup>24</sup>From the musicians: <br/>    Eliashib. <br/>  From the gatekeepers: <br/>    Shallum, Telem and Uri. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_25"> <sup>25</sup>And among the other Israelites: <br/>  From the descendants of Parosh: <br/>    Ramiah, Izziah, Malkijah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Malkijah and Benaiah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_26">  <sup>26</sup>From the descendants of Elam: <br/>    Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth and Elijah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_27">  <sup>27</sup>From the descendants of Zattu: <br/>    Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad and Aziza. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_28">  <sup>28</sup>From the descendants of Bebai: <br/>    Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai and Athlai. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_29">  <sup>29</sup>From the descendants of Bani: <br/>    Meshullam, Malluk, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal and Jeremoth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_30">  <sup>30</sup>From the descendants of Pahath-Moab: <br/>    Adna, Kelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui and Manasseh. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_31">  <sup>31</sup>From the descendants of Harim: <br/>    Eliezer, Ishijah, Malkijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_32"><sup>32</sup>Benjamin, Malluk and Shemariah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_33">  <sup>33</sup>From the descendants of Hashum: <br/>    Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh and Shimei. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_34">  <sup>34</sup>From the descendants of Bani: <br/>    Maadai, Amram, Uel, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_35"><sup>35</sup>Benaiah, Bedeiah, Keluhi, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_36"><sup>36</sup>Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_37"><sup>37</sup>Mattaniah, Mattenai and Jaasu. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_38">  <sup>38</sup>From the descendants of Binnui:<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="See Septuagint (also 1 Esdras 9:34); Hebrew Jaasu 38and Bani and Binnui,">⚓</a><br/>    Shimei, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_39"><sup>39</sup>Shelemiah, Nathan, Adaiah, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_40"><sup>40</sup>Maknadebai, Shashai, Sharai, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_41"><sup>41</sup>Azarel, Shelemiah, Shemariah, </span>
<span class="verse exo_10_42"><sup>42</sup>Shallum, Amariah and Joseph. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_43">  <sup>43</sup>From the descendants of Nebo: <br/>    Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, Joel and Benaiah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse exo_10_44"> <sup>44</sup>All these had married foreign women, and some of them had children by these wives.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and they sent them away with their children">⚓</a><br/></span>
