---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Galatians 
bookNumber: 48
audio: \Audio\NIV\ga\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse ga_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, an apostle—sent not from men nor by a man, but by Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead— </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_2"><sup>2</sup>and all the brothers and sisters<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family; also in verse 11; and in 3:15; 4:12, 28, 31; 5:11, 13; 6:1, 18.">⚓</a> with me, <br/> To the churches in Galatia: <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_4"><sup>4</sup>who gave himself for our sins to rescue us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_5"><sup>5</sup>to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>No Other Gospel </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_1_6"> <sup>6</sup>I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting the one who called you to live in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel— </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_7"><sup>7</sup>which is really no gospel at all. Evidently some people are throwing you into confusion and are trying to pervert the gospel of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_8"><sup>8</sup>But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach a gospel other than the one we preached to you, let them be under God’s curse! </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_9"><sup>9</sup>As we have already said, so now I say again: If anybody is preaching to you a gospel other than what you accepted, let them be under God’s curse! <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_1_10"> <sup>10</sup>Am I now trying to win the approval of human beings, or of God? Or am I trying to please people? If I were still trying to please people, I would not be a servant of Christ. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul Called by God </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>I want you to know, brothers and sisters, that the gospel I preached is not of human origin. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_12"><sup>12</sup>I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it; rather, I received it by revelation from Jesus Christ. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>For you have heard of my previous way of life in Judaism, how intensely I persecuted the church of God and tried to destroy it. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_14"><sup>14</sup>I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people and was extremely zealous for the traditions of my fathers. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_15"><sup>15</sup>But when God, who set me apart from my mother’s womb and called me by his grace, was pleased </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_16"><sup>16</sup>to reveal his Son in me so that I might preach him among the Gentiles, my immediate response was not to consult any human being. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_17"><sup>17</sup>I did not go up to Jerusalem to see those who were apostles before I was, but I went into Arabia. Later I returned to Damascus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>Then after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to get acquainted with Cephas<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Peter">⚓</a> and stayed with him fifteen days. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_19"><sup>19</sup>I saw none of the other apostles—only James, the Lord’s brother. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_20"><sup>20</sup>I assure you before God that what I am writing you is no lie. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_1_21"> <sup>21</sup>Then I went to Syria and Cilicia. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_22"><sup>22</sup>I was personally unknown to the churches of Judea that are in Christ. </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_23"><sup>23</sup>They only heard the report: “The man who formerly persecuted us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy.” </span>
<span class="verse ga_1_24"><sup>24</sup>And they praised God because of me. <br/></span>
