---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Galatians 
bookNumber: 48
audio: \Audio\NIV\ga\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Paul Accepted by the Apostles </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem, this time with Barnabas. I took Titus along also. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_2"><sup>2</sup>I went in response to a revelation and, meeting privately with those esteemed as leaders, I presented to them the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles. I wanted to be sure I was not running and had not been running my race in vain. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_3"><sup>3</sup>Yet not even Titus, who was with me, was compelled to be circumcised, even though he was a Greek. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_4"><sup>4</sup>This matter arose because some false believers had infiltrated our ranks to spy on the freedom we have in Christ Jesus and to make us slaves. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_5"><sup>5</sup>We did not give in to them for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_2_6"> <sup>6</sup>As for those who were held in high esteem—whatever they were makes no difference to me; God does not show favoritism—they added nothing to my message. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_7"><sup>7</sup>On the contrary, they recognized that I had been entrusted with the task of preaching the gospel to the uncircumcised,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Gentiles">⚓</a> just as Peter had been to the circumcised.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Jews; also in verses 8 and 9">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_2_8"><sup>8</sup>For God, who was at work in Peter as an apostle to the circumcised, was also at work in me as an apostle to the Gentiles. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_9"><sup>9</sup>James, Cephas<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Peter; also in verses 11 and 14">⚓</a> and John, those esteemed as pillars, gave me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship when they recognized the grace given to me. They agreed that we should go to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcised. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_10"><sup>10</sup>All they asked was that we should continue to remember the poor, the very thing I had been eager to do all along. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul Opposes Cephas </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>When Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_12"><sup>12</sup>For before certain men came from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles. But when they arrived, he began to draw back and separate himself from the Gentiles because he was afraid of those who belonged to the circumcision group. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_13"><sup>13</sup>The other Jews joined him in his hypocrisy, so that by their hypocrisy even Barnabas was led astray. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>When I saw that they were not acting in line with the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas in front of them all, “You are a Jew, yet you live like a Gentile and not like a Jew. How is it, then, that you force Gentiles to follow Jewish customs? <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>“We who are Jews by birth and not sinful Gentiles </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_16"><sup>16</sup>know that a person is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we, too, have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or but through the faithfulness of … justified on the basis of the faithfulness of">⚓</a> Christ and not by the works of the law, because by the works of the law no one will be justified. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>“But if, in seeking to be justified in Christ, we Jews find ourselves also among the sinners, doesn’t that mean that Christ promotes sin? Absolutely not! </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_18"><sup>18</sup>If I rebuild what I destroyed, then I really would be a lawbreaker. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>“For through the law I died to the law so that I might live for God. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_20"><sup>20</sup>I have been crucified with Christ and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I now live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. </span>
<span class="verse ga_2_21"><sup>21</sup>I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness could be gained through the law, Christ died for nothing!”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some interpreters end the quotation after verse 14.">⚓</a><br/></span>
