---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Galatians 
bookNumber: 48
audio: \Audio\NIV\ga\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>Faith or Works of the Law </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>You foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? Before your very eyes Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_2"><sup>2</sup>I would like to learn just one thing from you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by believing what you heard? </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_3"><sup>3</sup>Are you so foolish? After beginning by means of the Spirit, are you now trying to finish by means of the flesh?<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In contexts like this, the Greek word for flesh (sarx ) refers to the sinful state of human beings, often presented as a power in opposition to the Spirit.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_4"><sup>4</sup>Have you experienced<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or suffered">⚓</a> so much in vain—if it really was in vain? </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_5"><sup>5</sup>So again I ask, does God give you his Spirit and work miracles among you by the works of the law, or by your believing what you heard? </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_6"><sup>6</sup>So also Abraham “believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 15:6">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>Understand, then, that those who have faith are children of Abraham. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_8"><sup>8</sup>Scripture foresaw that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, and announced the gospel in advance to Abraham: “All nations will be blessed through you.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 12:3; 18:18; 22:18">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_9"><sup>9</sup>So those who rely on faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_10"> <sup>10</sup>For all who rely on the works of the law are under a curse, as it is written: “Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the Book of the Law.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 27:26">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_11"><sup>11</sup>Clearly no one who relies on the law is justified before God, because “the righteous will live by faith.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hab. 2:4">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_12"><sup>12</sup>The law is not based on faith; on the contrary, it says, “The person who does these things will live by them.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 18:5">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_13"><sup>13</sup>Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: “Cursed is everyone who is hung on a pole.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 21:23">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_14"><sup>14</sup>He redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus, so that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Law and the Promise </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>Brothers and sisters, let me take an example from everyday life. Just as no one can set aside or add to a human covenant that has been duly established, so it is in this case. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_16"><sup>16</sup>The promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. Scripture does not say “and to seeds,” meaning many people, but “and to your seed,”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 12:7; 13:15; 24:7">⚓</a> meaning one person, who is Christ. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_17"><sup>17</sup>What I mean is this: The law, introduced 430 years later, does not set aside the covenant previously established by God and thus do away with the promise. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_18"><sup>18</sup>For if the inheritance depends on the law, then it no longer depends on the promise; but God in his grace gave it to Abraham through a promise. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_19"> <sup>19</sup>Why, then, was the law given at all? It was added because of transgressions until the Seed to whom the promise referred had come. The law was given through angels and entrusted to a mediator. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_20"><sup>20</sup>A mediator, however, implies more than one party; but God is one. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_21"> <sup>21</sup>Is the law, therefore, opposed to the promises of God? Absolutely not! For if a law had been given that could impart life, then righteousness would certainly have come by the law. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_22"><sup>22</sup>But Scripture has locked up everything under the control of sin, so that what was promised, being given through faith in Jesus Christ, might be given to those who believe. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Children of God </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_3_23"> <sup>23</sup>Before the coming of this faith,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or through the faithfulness of Jesus …. 23Before faith came">⚓</a> we were held in custody under the law, locked up until the faith that was to come would be revealed. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_24"><sup>24</sup>So the law was our guardian until Christ came that we might be justified by faith. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_25"><sup>25</sup>Now that this faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_3_26"> <sup>26</sup>So in Christ Jesus you are all children of God through faith, </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_27"><sup>27</sup>for all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_28"><sup>28</sup>There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. </span>
<span class="verse ga_3_29"><sup>29</sup>If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise. <br/></span>
