---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Galatians 
bookNumber: 48
audio: \Audio\NIV\ga\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1></div>
<span class="verse ga_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>What I am saying is that as long as an heir is underage, he is no different from a slave, although he owns the whole estate. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_2"><sup>2</sup>The heir is subject to guardians and trustees until the time set by his father. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_3"><sup>3</sup>So also, when we were underage, we were in slavery under the elemental spiritual forces<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or under the basic principles">⚓</a> of the world. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_4"><sup>4</sup>But when the set time had fully come, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_5"><sup>5</sup>to redeem those under the law, that we might receive adoption to sonship.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for adoption to sonship is a legal term referring to the full legal standing of an adopted male heir in Roman culture.">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Because you are his sons, God sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, the Spirit who calls out, <em>“Abba</em>,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Aramaic for Father">⚓</a> Father.” </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_7"><sup>7</sup>So you are no longer a slave, but God’s child; and since you are his child, God has made you also an heir. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Paul’s Concern for the Galatians </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_4_8"> <sup>8</sup>Formerly, when you did not know God, you were slaves to those who by nature are not gods. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_9"><sup>9</sup>But now that you know God—or rather are known by God—how is it that you are turning back to those weak and miserable forces<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or principles">⚓</a> ? Do you wish to be enslaved by them all over again? </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_10"><sup>10</sup>You are observing special days and months and seasons and years! </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_11"><sup>11</sup>I fear for you, that somehow I have wasted my efforts on you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_4_12"> <sup>12</sup>I plead with you, brothers and sisters, become like me, for I became like you. You did me no wrong. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_13"><sup>13</sup>As you know, it was because of an illness that I first preached the gospel to you, </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_14"><sup>14</sup>and even though my illness was a trial to you, you did not treat me with contempt or scorn. Instead, you welcomed me as if I were an angel of God, as if I were Christ Jesus himself. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_15"><sup>15</sup>Where, then, is your blessing of me now? I can testify that, if you could have done so, you would have torn out your eyes and given them to me. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_16"><sup>16</sup>Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth? <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_4_17"> <sup>17</sup>Those people are zealous to win you over, but for no good. What they want is to alienate you from us, so that you may have zeal for them. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_18"><sup>18</sup>It is fine to be zealous, provided the purpose is good, and to be so always, not just when I am with you. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_19"><sup>19</sup>My dear children, for whom I am again in the pains of childbirth until Christ is formed in you, </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_20"><sup>20</sup>how I wish I could be with you now and change my tone, because I am perplexed about you! <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Hagar and Sarah </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>Tell me, you who want to be under the law, are you not aware of what the law says? </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_22"><sup>22</sup>For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the slave woman and the other by the free woman. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_23"><sup>23</sup>His son by the slave woman was born according to the flesh, but his son by the free woman was born as the result of a divine promise. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_4_24"> <sup>24</sup>These things are being taken figuratively: The women represent two covenants. One covenant is from Mount Sinai and bears children who are to be slaves: This is Hagar. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_25"><sup>25</sup>Now Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present city of Jerusalem, because she is in slavery with her children. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_26"><sup>26</sup>But the Jerusalem that is above is free, and she is our mother. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_27"><sup>27</sup>For it is written: <br/>  “Be glad, barren woman, <br/>   you who never bore a child; <br/>  shout for joy and cry aloud, <br/>   you who were never in labor; <br/>  because more are the children of the desolate woman <br/>   than of her who has a husband.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Isaiah 54:1">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_4_28"> <sup>28</sup>Now you, brothers and sisters, like Isaac, are children of promise. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_29"><sup>29</sup>At that time the son born according to the flesh persecuted the son born by the power of the Spirit. It is the same now. </span>
<span class="verse ga_4_30"><sup>30</sup>But what does Scripture say? “Get rid of the slave woman and her son, for the slave woman’s son will never share in the inheritance with the free woman’s son.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Gen. 21:10">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_4_31"><sup>31</sup>Therefore, brothers and sisters, we are not children of the slave woman, but of the free woman. <br/></span>
