---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Galatians 
bookNumber: 48
audio: \Audio\NIV\ga\5.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>5</h1><h3>Freedom in Christ </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_5_1"> <sup>1</sup>It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm, then, and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_5_2"> <sup>2</sup>Mark my words! I, Paul, tell you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_3"><sup>3</sup>Again I declare to every man who lets himself be circumcised that he is obligated to obey the whole law. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_4"><sup>4</sup>You who are trying to be justified by the law have been alienated from Christ; you have fallen away from grace. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_5"><sup>5</sup>For through the Spirit we eagerly await by faith the righteousness for which we hope. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_6"><sup>6</sup>For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value. The only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_5_7"> <sup>7</sup>You were running a good race. Who cut in on you to keep you from obeying the truth? </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_8"><sup>8</sup>That kind of persuasion does not come from the one who calls you. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_9"><sup>9</sup>“A little yeast works through the whole batch of dough.” </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_10"><sup>10</sup>I am confident in the Lord that you will take no other view. The one who is throwing you into confusion, whoever that may be, will have to pay the penalty. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_11"><sup>11</sup>Brothers and sisters, if I am still preaching circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case the offense of the cross has been abolished. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_12"><sup>12</sup>As for those agitators, I wish they would go the whole way and emasculate themselves! <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Life by the Spirit </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_5_13"> <sup>13</sup>You, my brothers and sisters, were called to be free. But do not use your freedom to indulge the flesh<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="In contexts like this, the Greek word for flesh (sarx ) refers to the sinful state of human beings, often presented as a power in opposition to the Spirit; also in verses 16, 17, 19 and 24; and in 6:8.">⚓</a> ; rather, serve one another humbly in love. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_14"><sup>14</sup>For the entire law is fulfilled in keeping this one command: “Love your neighbor as yourself.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Lev. 19:18">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse ga_5_15"><sup>15</sup>If you bite and devour each other, watch out or you will be destroyed by each other. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_5_16"> <sup>16</sup>So I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_17"><sup>17</sup>For the flesh desires what is contrary to the Spirit, and the Spirit what is contrary to the flesh. They are in conflict with each other, so that you are not to do whatever<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or you do not do what">⚓</a> you want. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_18"><sup>18</sup>But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_5_19"> <sup>19</sup>The acts of the flesh are obvious: sexual immorality, impurity and debauchery; </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_20"><sup>20</sup>idolatry and witchcraft; hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage, selfish ambition, dissensions, factions </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_21"><sup>21</sup>and envy; drunkenness, orgies, and the like. I warn you, as I did before, that those who live like this will not inherit the kingdom of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_5_22"> <sup>22</sup>But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_23"><sup>23</sup>gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_24"><sup>24</sup>Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_25"><sup>25</sup>Since we live by the Spirit, let us keep in step with the Spirit. </span>
<span class="verse ga_5_26"><sup>26</sup>Let us not become conceited, provoking and envying each other. <br/></span>
