---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Galatians 
bookNumber: 48
audio: \Audio\NIV\ga\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1><h3>Doing Good to All </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>Brothers and sisters, if someone is caught in a sin, you who live by the Spirit should restore that person gently. But watch yourselves, or you also may be tempted. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_2"><sup>2</sup>Carry each other’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_3"><sup>3</sup>If anyone thinks they are something when they are not, they deceive themselves. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_4"><sup>4</sup>Each one should test their own actions. Then they can take pride in themselves alone, without comparing themselves to someone else, </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_5"><sup>5</sup>for each one should carry their own load. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_6"><sup>6</sup>Nevertheless, the one who receives instruction in the word should share all good things with their instructor. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_6_7"> <sup>7</sup>Do not be deceived: God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_8"><sup>8</sup>Whoever sows to please their flesh, from the flesh will reap destruction; whoever sows to please the Spirit, from the Spirit will reap eternal life. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_9"><sup>9</sup>Let us not become weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_10"><sup>10</sup>Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, especially to those who belong to the family of believers. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Not Circumcision but the New Creation </h3></div>
<span class="verse ga_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>See what large letters I use as I write to you with my own hand! <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_6_12"> <sup>12</sup>Those who want to impress people by means of the flesh are trying to compel you to be circumcised. The only reason they do this is to avoid being persecuted for the cross of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_13"><sup>13</sup>Not even those who are circumcised keep the law, yet they want you to be circumcised that they may boast about your circumcision in the flesh. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_14"><sup>14</sup>May I never boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or whom">⚓</a> the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_15"><sup>15</sup>Neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything; what counts is the new creation. </span>
<span class="verse ga_6_16"><sup>16</sup>Peace and mercy to all who follow this rule—to<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or rule and to">⚓</a> the Israel of God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>From now on, let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse ga_6_18"> <sup>18</sup>The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers and sisters. Amen. <br/></span>
