---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1><h3>Solomon Asks for Wisdom </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Solomon son of David established himself firmly over his kingdom, for the Lord his God was with him and made him exceedingly great. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>Then Solomon spoke to all Israel—to the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, to the judges and to all the leaders in Israel, the heads of families— </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_3"><sup>3</sup>and Solomon and the whole assembly went to the high place at Gibeon, for God’s tent of meeting was there, which Moses the Lord’s servant had made in the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_4"><sup>4</sup>Now David had brought up the ark of God from Kiriath Jearim to the place he had prepared for it, because he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_5"><sup>5</sup>But the bronze altar that Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made was in Gibeon in front of the tabernacle of the Lord; so Solomon and the assembly inquired of him there. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_6"><sup>6</sup>Solomon went up to the bronze altar before the Lord in the tent of meeting and offered a thousand burnt offerings on it. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_7"> <sup>7</sup>That night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, “Ask for whatever you want me to give you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>Solomon answered God, “You have shown great kindness to David my father and have made me king in his place. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_9"><sup>9</sup>Now, Lord God, let your promise to my father David be confirmed, for you have made me king over a people who are as numerous as the dust of the earth. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_10"><sup>10</sup>Give me wisdom and knowledge, that I may lead this people, for who is able to govern this great people of yours?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>God said to Solomon, “Since this is your heart’s desire and you have not asked for wealth, possessions or honor, nor for the death of your enemies, and since you have not asked for a long life but for wisdom and knowledge to govern my people over whom I have made you king, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_12"><sup>12</sup>therefore wisdom and knowledge will be given you. And I will also give you wealth, possessions and honor, such as no king who was before you ever had and none after you will have.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>Then Solomon went to Jerusalem from the high place at Gibeon, from before the tent of meeting. And he reigned over Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_14"> <sup>14</sup>Solomon accumulated chariots and horses; he had fourteen hundred chariots and twelve thousand horses,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or charioteers">⚓</a> which he kept in the chariot cities and also with him in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_15"><sup>15</sup>The king made silver and gold as common in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar as plentiful as sycamore-fig trees in the foothills. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_16"><sup>16</sup>Solomon’s horses were imported from Egypt and from Kue<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probably Cilicia">⚓</a> —the royal merchants purchased them from Kue at the current price. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_1_17"><sup>17</sup>They imported a chariot from Egypt for six hundred shekels<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 15 pounds or about 6.9 kilograms">⚓</a> of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 3/4 pounds or about 1.7 kilograms">⚓</a> They also exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and of the Arameans. <br/></span>
