---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Preparations for Building the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Solomon gave orders to build a temple for the Name of the Lord and a royal palace for himself. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_2"><sup>2</sup>He conscripted 70,000 men as carriers and 80,000 as stonecutters in the hills and 3,600 as foremen over them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_3"> <sup>3</sup>Solomon sent this message to Hiram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Huram, a variant of Hiram ; also in verses 11 and 12">⚓</a> king of Tyre: <br/> “Send me cedar logs as you did for my father David when you sent him cedar to build a palace to live in. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_4"><sup>4</sup>Now I am about to build a temple for the Name of the Lord my God and to dedicate it to him for burning fragrant incense before him, for setting out the consecrated bread regularly, and for making burnt offerings every morning and evening and on the Sabbaths, at the New Moons and at the appointed festivals of the Lord our God. This is a lasting ordinance for Israel. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>“The temple I am going to build will be great, because our God is greater than all other gods. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_6"><sup>6</sup>But who is able to build a temple for him, since the heavens, even the highest heavens, cannot contain him? Who then am I to build a temple for him, except as a place to burn sacrifices before him? <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_7"> <sup>7</sup>“Send me, therefore, a man skilled to work in gold and silver, bronze and iron, and in purple, crimson and blue yarn, and experienced in the art of engraving, to work in Judah and Jerusalem with my skilled workers, whom my father David provided. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_8"> <sup>8</sup>“Send me also cedar, juniper and algum<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probably a variant of almug">⚓</a> logs from Lebanon, for I know that your servants are skilled in cutting timber there. My servants will work with yours </span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_9"><sup>9</sup>to provide me with plenty of lumber, because the temple I build must be large and magnificent. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_10"><sup>10</sup>I will give your servants, the woodsmen who cut the timber, twenty thousand cors<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3,600 tons or about 3,200 metric tons of wheat">⚓</a> of ground wheat, twenty thousand cors<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, probably about 3,000 tons or about 2,700 metric tons of barley">⚓</a> of barley, twenty thousand baths<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 120,000 gallons or about 440,000 liters">⚓</a> of wine and twenty thousand baths of olive oil.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_11"> <sup>11</sup>Hiram king of Tyre replied by letter to Solomon: <br/> “Because the Lord loves his people, he has made you their king.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_12"> <sup>12</sup>And Hiram added: <br/> “Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel, who made heaven and earth! He has given King David a wise son, endowed with intelligence and discernment, who will build a temple for the Lord and a palace for himself. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_13"> <sup>13</sup>“I am sending you Huram-Abi, a man of great skill, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_14"><sup>14</sup>whose mother was from Dan and whose father was from Tyre. He is trained to work in gold and silver, bronze and iron, stone and wood, and with purple and blue and crimson yarn and fine linen. He is experienced in all kinds of engraving and can execute any design given to him. He will work with your skilled workers and with those of my lord, David your father. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_15"> <sup>15</sup>“Now let my lord send his servants the wheat and barley and the olive oil and wine he promised, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_16"><sup>16</sup>and we will cut all the logs from Lebanon that you need and will float them as rafts by sea down to Joppa. You can then take them up to Jerusalem.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_17"> <sup>17</sup>Solomon took a census of all the foreigners residing in Israel, after the census his father David had taken; and they were found to be 153,600. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_2_18"><sup>18</sup>He assigned 70,000 of them to be carriers and 80,000 to be stonecutters in the hills, with 3,600 foremen over them to keep the people working. <br/></span>
