---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\8.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>8</h1><h3>Solomon’s Other Activities </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_8_1"> <sup>1</sup>At the end of twenty years, during which Solomon built the temple of the Lord and his own palace, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_2"><sup>2</sup>Solomon rebuilt the villages that Hiram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Huram, a variant of Hiram ; also in verse 18">⚓</a> had given him, and settled Israelites in them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_3"><sup>3</sup>Solomon then went to Hamath Zobah and captured it. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_4"><sup>4</sup>He also built up Tadmor in the desert and all the store cities he had built in Hamath. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_5"><sup>5</sup>He rebuilt Upper Beth Horon and Lower Beth Horon as fortified cities, with walls and with gates and bars, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_6"><sup>6</sup>as well as Baalath and all his store cities, and all the cities for his chariots and for his horses<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or charioteers">⚓</a> —whatever he desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon and throughout all the territory he ruled. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_7"> <sup>7</sup>There were still people left from the Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites (these people were not Israelites). </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_8"><sup>8</sup>Solomon conscripted the descendants of all these people remaining in the land—whom the Israelites had not destroyed—to serve as slave labor, as it is to this day. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_9"><sup>9</sup>But Solomon did not make slaves of the Israelites for his work; they were his fighting men, commanders of his captains, and commanders of his chariots and charioteers. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_10"><sup>10</sup>They were also King Solomon’s chief officials—two hundred and fifty officials supervising the men. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_11"> <sup>11</sup>Solomon brought Pharaoh’s daughter up from the City of David to the palace he had built for her, for he said, “My wife must not live in the palace of David king of Israel, because the places the ark of the Lord has entered are holy.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_12"> <sup>12</sup>On the altar of the Lord that he had built in front of the portico, Solomon sacrificed burnt offerings to the Lord, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_13"><sup>13</sup>according to the daily requirement for offerings commanded by Moses for the Sabbaths, the New Moons and the three annual festivals—the Festival of Unleavened Bread, the Festival of Weeks and the Festival of Tabernacles. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_14"><sup>14</sup>In keeping with the ordinance of his father David, he appointed the divisions of the priests for their duties, and the Levites to lead the praise and to assist the priests according to each day’s requirement. He also appointed the gatekeepers by divisions for the various gates, because this was what David the man of God had ordered. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_15"><sup>15</sup>They did not deviate from the king’s commands to the priests or to the Levites in any matter, including that of the treasuries. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_16"> <sup>16</sup>All Solomon’s work was carried out, from the day the foundation of the temple of the Lord was laid until its completion. So the temple of the Lord was finished. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_17"> <sup>17</sup>Then Solomon went to Ezion Geber and Elath on the coast of Edom. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_8_18"><sup>18</sup>And Hiram sent him ships commanded by his own men, sailors who knew the sea. These, with Solomon’s men, sailed to Ophir and brought back four hundred and fifty talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 17 tons or about 15 metric tons">⚓</a> of gold, which they delivered to King Solomon. <br/></span>
