---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\10.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>10</h1><h3>Israel Rebels Against Rehoboam </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_10_1"> <sup>1</sup>Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had gone there to make him king. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_2"><sup>2</sup>When Jeroboam son of Nebat heard this (he was in Egypt, where he had fled from King Solomon), he returned from Egypt. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_3"><sup>3</sup>So they sent for Jeroboam, and he and all Israel went to Rehoboam and said to him: </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_4"><sup>4</sup>“Your father put a heavy yoke on us, but now lighten the harsh labor and the heavy yoke he put on us, and we will serve you.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_5"> <sup>5</sup>Rehoboam answered, “Come back to me in three days.” So the people went away. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_6"> <sup>6</sup>Then King Rehoboam consulted the elders who had served his father Solomon during his lifetime. “How would you advise me to answer these people?” he asked. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_7"> <sup>7</sup>They replied, “If you will be kind to these people and please them and give them a favorable answer, they will always be your servants.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_8"> <sup>8</sup>But Rehoboam rejected the advice the elders gave him and consulted the young men who had grown up with him and were serving him. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_9"><sup>9</sup>He asked them, “What is your advice? How should we answer these people who say to me, ‘Lighten the yoke your father put on us’?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_10"> <sup>10</sup>The young men who had grown up with him replied, “The people have said to you, ‘Your father put a heavy yoke on us, but make our yoke lighter.’ Now tell them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father’s waist. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_11"><sup>11</sup>My father laid on you a heavy yoke; I will make it even heavier. My father scourged you with whips; I will scourge you with scorpions.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_12"> <sup>12</sup>Three days later Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam, as the king had said, “Come back to me in three days.” </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_13"><sup>13</sup>The king answered them harshly. Rejecting the advice of the elders, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_14"><sup>14</sup>he followed the advice of the young men and said, “My father made your yoke heavy; I will make it even heavier. My father scourged you with whips; I will scourge you with scorpions.” </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_15"><sup>15</sup>So the king did not listen to the people, for this turn of events was from God, to fulfill the word the Lord had spoken to Jeroboam son of Nebat through Ahijah the Shilonite. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_16"> <sup>16</sup>When all Israel saw that the king refused to listen to them, they answered the king: <br/>  “What share do we have in David, <br/>   what part in Jesse’s son? <br/>  To your tents, Israel! <br/>   Look after your own house, David!” <br/>So all the Israelites went home. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_17"><sup>17</sup>But as for the Israelites who were living in the towns of Judah, Rehoboam still ruled over them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_18"> <sup>18</sup>King Rehoboam sent out Adoniram,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Hadoram, a variant of Adoniram">⚓</a> who was in charge of forced labor, but the Israelites stoned him to death. King Rehoboam, however, managed to get into his chariot and escape to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_10_19"><sup>19</sup>So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. <br/></span>
