---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\11.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>11</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2su_11_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem, he mustered Judah and Benjamin—a hundred and eighty thousand able young men—to go to war against Israel and to regain the kingdom for Rehoboam. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_2"> <sup>2</sup>But this word of the Lord came to Shemaiah the man of God: </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_3"><sup>3</sup>“Say to Rehoboam son of Solomon king of Judah and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_4"><sup>4</sup>‘This is what the Lord says: Do not go up to fight against your fellow Israelites. Go home, every one of you, for this is my doing.’ ” So they obeyed the words of the Lord and turned back from marching against Jeroboam. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Rehoboam Fortifies Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_11_5"> <sup>5</sup>Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem and built up towns for defense in Judah: </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_6"><sup>6</sup>Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_7"><sup>7</sup>Beth Zur, Soko, Adullam, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_8"><sup>8</sup>Gath, Mareshah, Ziph, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_9"><sup>9</sup>Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_10"><sup>10</sup>Zorah, Aijalon and Hebron. These were fortified cities in Judah and Benjamin. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_11"><sup>11</sup>He strengthened their defenses and put commanders in them, with supplies of food, olive oil and wine. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_12"><sup>12</sup>He put shields and spears in all the cities, and made them very strong. So Judah and Benjamin were his. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_13"> <sup>13</sup>The priests and Levites from all their districts throughout Israel sided with him. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_14"><sup>14</sup>The Levites even abandoned their pasturelands and property and came to Judah and Jerusalem, because Jeroboam and his sons had rejected them as priests of the Lord</span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_15"><sup>15</sup>when he appointed his own priests for the high places and for the goat and calf idols he had made. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_16"><sup>16</sup>Those from every tribe of Israel who set their hearts on seeking the Lord, the God of Israel, followed the Levites to Jerusalem to offer sacrifices to the Lord, the God of their ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_17"><sup>17</sup>They strengthened the kingdom of Judah and supported Rehoboam son of Solomon three years, following the ways of David and Solomon during this time. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Rehoboam’s Family </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_11_18"> <sup>18</sup>Rehoboam married Mahalath, who was the daughter of David’s son Jerimoth and of Abihail, the daughter of Jesse’s son Eliab. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_19"><sup>19</sup>She bore him sons: Jeush, Shemariah and Zaham. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_20"><sup>20</sup>Then he married Maakah daughter of Absalom, who bore him Abijah, Attai, Ziza and Shelomith. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_21"><sup>21</sup>Rehoboam loved Maakah daughter of Absalom more than any of his other wives and concubines. In all, he had eighteen wives and sixty concubines, twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_22"> <sup>22</sup>Rehoboam appointed Abijah son of Maakah as crown prince among his brothers, in order to make him king. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_11_23"><sup>23</sup>He acted wisely, dispersing some of his sons throughout the districts of Judah and Benjamin, and to all the fortified cities. He gave them abundant provisions and took many wives for them. <br/></span>
