---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\12.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>12</h1><h3>Shishak Attacks Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_12_1"> <sup>1</sup>After Rehoboam’s position as king was established and he had become strong, he and all Israel<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Judah, as frequently in 2 Chronicles">⚓</a> with him abandoned the law of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_2"><sup>2</sup>Because they had been unfaithful to the Lord, Shishak king of Egypt attacked Jerusalem in the fifth year of King Rehoboam. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_3"><sup>3</sup>With twelve hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen and the innumerable troops of Libyans, Sukkites and Cushites<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, people from the upper Nile region">⚓</a> that came with him from Egypt, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_4"><sup>4</sup>he captured the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_5"> <sup>5</sup>Then the prophet Shemaiah came to Rehoboam and to the leaders of Judah who had assembled in Jerusalem for fear of Shishak, and he said to them, “This is what the Lord says, ‘You have abandoned me; therefore, I now abandon you to Shishak.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_6"> <sup>6</sup>The leaders of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, “The Lord is just.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_7"> <sup>7</sup>When the Lord saw that they humbled themselves, this word of the Lord came to Shemaiah: “Since they have humbled themselves, I will not destroy them but will soon give them deliverance. My wrath will not be poured out on Jerusalem through Shishak. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_8"><sup>8</sup>They will, however, become subject to him, so that they may learn the difference between serving me and serving the kings of other lands.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_9"> <sup>9</sup>When Shishak king of Egypt attacked Jerusalem, he carried off the treasures of the temple of the Lord and the treasures of the royal palace. He took everything, including the gold shields Solomon had made. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_10"><sup>10</sup>So King Rehoboam made bronze shields to replace them and assigned these to the commanders of the guard on duty at the entrance to the royal palace. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_11"><sup>11</sup>Whenever the king went to the Lord’s temple, the guards went with him, bearing the shields, and afterward they returned them to the guardroom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_12"> <sup>12</sup>Because Rehoboam humbled himself, the Lord’s anger turned from him, and he was not totally destroyed. Indeed, there was some good in Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_13"> <sup>13</sup>King Rehoboam established himself firmly in Jerusalem and continued as king. He was forty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city the Lord had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel in which to put his Name. His mother’s name was Naamah; she was an Ammonite. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_14"><sup>14</sup>He did evil because he had not set his heart on seeking the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_15"> <sup>15</sup>As for the events of Rehoboam’s reign, from beginning to end, are they not written in the records of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer that deal with genealogies? There was continual warfare between Rehoboam and Jeroboam. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_12_16"><sup>16</sup>Rehoboam rested with his ancestors and was buried in the City of David. And Abijah his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
