---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\13.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>13</h1><h3>Abijah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_13_1"> <sup>1</sup>In the eighteenth year of the reign of Jeroboam, Abijah became king of Judah, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_2"><sup>2</sup>and he reigned in Jerusalem three years. His mother’s name was Maakah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 11:20 and 1 Kings 15:2); Hebrew Micaiah">⚓</a> a daughter<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or granddaughter">⚓</a> of Uriel of Gibeah. <br/> There was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_3"><sup>3</sup>Abijah went into battle with an army of four hundred thousand able fighting men, and Jeroboam drew up a battle line against him with eight hundred thousand able troops. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_4"> <sup>4</sup>Abijah stood on Mount Zemaraim, in the hill country of Ephraim, and said, “Jeroboam and all Israel, listen to me! </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_5"><sup>5</sup>Don’t you know that the Lord, the God of Israel, has given the kingship of Israel to David and his descendants forever by a covenant of salt? </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_6"><sup>6</sup>Yet Jeroboam son of Nebat, an official of Solomon son of David, rebelled against his master. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_7"><sup>7</sup>Some worthless scoundrels gathered around him and opposed Rehoboam son of Solomon when he was young and indecisive and not strong enough to resist them. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_8"> <sup>8</sup>“And now you plan to resist the kingdom of the Lord, which is in the hands of David’s descendants. You are indeed a vast army and have with you the golden calves that Jeroboam made to be your gods. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_9"><sup>9</sup>But didn’t you drive out the priests of the Lord, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and make priests of your own as the peoples of other lands do? Whoever comes to consecrate himself with a young bull and seven rams may become a priest of what are not gods. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_10"> <sup>10</sup>“As for us, the Lord is our God, and we have not forsaken him. The priests who serve the Lord are sons of Aaron, and the Levites assist them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_11"><sup>11</sup>Every morning and evening they present burnt offerings and fragrant incense to the Lord. They set out the bread on the ceremonially clean table and light the lamps on the gold lampstand every evening. We are observing the requirements of the Lord our God. But you have forsaken him. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_12"><sup>12</sup>God is with us; he is our leader. His priests with their trumpets will sound the battle cry against you. People of Israel, do not fight against the Lord, the God of your ancestors, for you will not succeed.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_13"> <sup>13</sup>Now Jeroboam had sent troops around to the rear, so that while he was in front of Judah the ambush was behind them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_14"><sup>14</sup>Judah turned and saw that they were being attacked at both front and rear. Then they cried out to the Lord. The priests blew their trumpets </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_15"><sup>15</sup>and the men of Judah raised the battle cry. At the sound of their battle cry, God routed Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_16"><sup>16</sup>The Israelites fled before Judah, and God delivered them into their hands. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_17"><sup>17</sup>Abijah and his troops inflicted heavy losses on them, so that there were five hundred thousand casualties among Israel’s able men. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_18"><sup>18</sup>The Israelites were subdued on that occasion, and the people of Judah were victorious because they relied on the Lord, the God of their ancestors. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_19"> <sup>19</sup>Abijah pursued Jeroboam and took from him the towns of Bethel, Jeshanah and Ephron, with their surrounding villages. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_20"><sup>20</sup>Jeroboam did not regain power during the time of Abijah. And the Lord struck him down and he died. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_21"> <sup>21</sup>But Abijah grew in strength. He married fourteen wives and had twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_13_22"> <sup>22</sup>The other events of Abijah’s reign, what he did and what he said, are written in the annotations of the prophet Iddo. <br/></span>
