---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\15.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>15</h1><h3>Asa’s Reform </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_15_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Spirit of God came on Azariah son of Oded. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_2"><sup>2</sup>He went out to meet Asa and said to him, “Listen to me, Asa and all Judah and Benjamin. The Lord is with you when you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will forsake you. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_3"><sup>3</sup>For a long time Israel was without the true God, without a priest to teach and without the law. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_4"><sup>4</sup>But in their distress they turned to the Lord, the God of Israel, and sought him, and he was found by them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_5"><sup>5</sup>In those days it was not safe to travel about, for all the inhabitants of the lands were in great turmoil. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_6"><sup>6</sup>One nation was being crushed by another and one city by another, because God was troubling them with every kind of distress. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_7"><sup>7</sup>But as for you, be strong and do not give up, for your work will be rewarded.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_8"> <sup>8</sup>When Asa heard these words and the prophecy of Azariah son of<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Vulgate and Syriac (see also Septuagint and verse 1); Hebrew does not have Azariah son of .">⚓</a> Oded the prophet, he took courage. He removed the detestable idols from the whole land of Judah and Benjamin and from the towns he had captured in the hills of Ephraim. He repaired the altar of the Lord that was in front of the portico of the Lord’s temple. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_9"> <sup>9</sup>Then he assembled all Judah and Benjamin and the people from Ephraim, Manasseh and Simeon who had settled among them, for large numbers had come over to him from Israel when they saw that the Lord his God was with him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_10"> <sup>10</sup>They assembled at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of Asa’s reign. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_11"><sup>11</sup>At that time they sacrificed to the Lord seven hundred head of cattle and seven thousand sheep and goats from the plunder they had brought back. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_12"><sup>12</sup>They entered into a covenant to seek the Lord, the God of their ancestors, with all their heart and soul. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_13"><sup>13</sup>All who would not seek the Lord, the God of Israel, were to be put to death, whether small or great, man or woman. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_14"><sup>14</sup>They took an oath to the Lord with loud acclamation, with shouting and with trumpets and horns. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_15"><sup>15</sup>All Judah rejoiced about the oath because they had sworn it wholeheartedly. They sought God eagerly, and he was found by them. So the Lord gave them rest on every side. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_16"> <sup>16</sup>King Asa also deposed his grandmother Maakah from her position as queen mother, because she had made a repulsive image for the worship of Asherah. Asa cut it down, broke it up and burned it in the Kidron Valley. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_17"><sup>17</sup>Although he did not remove the high places from Israel, Asa’s heart was fully committed to the Lord all his life. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_18"><sup>18</sup>He brought into the temple of God the silver and gold and the articles that he and his father had dedicated. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_15_19"> <sup>19</sup>There was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of Asa’s reign. <br/></span>
