---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\17.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>17</h1><h3>Jehoshaphat King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_17_1"> <sup>1</sup>Jehoshaphat his son succeeded him as king and strengthened himself against Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_2"><sup>2</sup>He stationed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah and put garrisons in Judah and in the towns of Ephraim that his father Asa had captured. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_3"> <sup>3</sup>The Lord was with Jehoshaphat because he followed the ways of his father David before him. He did not consult the Baals </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_4"><sup>4</sup>but sought the God of his father and followed his commands rather than the practices of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_5"><sup>5</sup>The Lord established the kingdom under his control; and all Judah brought gifts to Jehoshaphat, so that he had great wealth and honor. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_6"><sup>6</sup>His heart was devoted to the ways of the Lord; furthermore, he removed the high places and the Asherah poles from Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_7"> <sup>7</sup>In the third year of his reign he sent his officials Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah to teach in the towns of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_8"><sup>8</sup>With them were certain Levites—Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah and Tob-Adonijah—and the priests Elishama and Jehoram. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_9"><sup>9</sup>They taught throughout Judah, taking with them the Book of the Law of the Lord; they went around to all the towns of Judah and taught the people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_10"> <sup>10</sup>The fear of the Lord fell on all the kingdoms of the lands surrounding Judah, so that they did not go to war against Jehoshaphat. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_11"><sup>11</sup>Some Philistines brought Jehoshaphat gifts and silver as tribute, and the Arabs brought him flocks: seven thousand seven hundred rams and seven thousand seven hundred goats. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_12"> <sup>12</sup>Jehoshaphat became more and more powerful; he built forts and store cities in Judah </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_13"><sup>13</sup>and had large supplies in the towns of Judah. He also kept experienced fighting men in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_14"><sup>14</sup>Their enrollment by families was as follows: <br/>  From Judah, commanders of units of 1,000: <br/>    Adnah the commander, with 300,000 fighting men; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_15">    <sup>15</sup>next, Jehohanan the commander, with 280,000; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_16">    <sup>16</sup>next, Amasiah son of Zikri, who volunteered himself for the service of the Lord, with 200,000. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_17">  <sup>17</sup>From Benjamin: <br/>    Eliada, a valiant soldier, with 200,000 men armed with bows and shields; <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_18">    <sup>18</sup>next, Jehozabad, with 180,000 men armed for battle. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_17_19"><sup>19</sup>These were the men who served the king, besides those he stationed in the fortified cities throughout Judah. <br/></span>
