---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\19.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>19</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2su_19_1"> <sup>1</sup>When Jehoshaphat king of Judah returned safely to his palace in Jerusalem, </span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_2"><sup>2</sup>Jehu the seer, the son of Hanani, went out to meet him and said to the king, “Should you help the wicked and love<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and make alliances with">⚓</a> those who hate the Lord? Because of this, the wrath of the Lord is on you. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_3"><sup>3</sup>There is, however, some good in you, for you have rid the land of the Asherah poles and have set your heart on seeking God.” <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoshaphat Appoints Judges </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_19_4"> <sup>4</sup>Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem, and he went out again among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim and turned them back to the Lord, the God of their ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_5"><sup>5</sup>He appointed judges in the land, in each of the fortified cities of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_6"><sup>6</sup>He told them, “Consider carefully what you do, because you are not judging for mere mortals but for the Lord, who is with you whenever you give a verdict. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_7"><sup>7</sup>Now let the fear of the Lord be on you. Judge carefully, for with the Lord our God there is no injustice or partiality or bribery.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_8"> <sup>8</sup>In Jerusalem also, Jehoshaphat appointed some of the Levites, priests and heads of Israelite families to administer the law of the Lord and to settle disputes. And they lived in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_9"><sup>9</sup>He gave them these orders: “You must serve faithfully and wholeheartedly in the fear of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_10"><sup>10</sup>In every case that comes before you from your people who live in the cities—whether bloodshed or other concerns of the law, commands, decrees or regulations—you are to warn them not to sin against the Lord; otherwise his wrath will come on you and your people. Do this, and you will not sin. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_19_11"> <sup>11</sup>“Amariah the chief priest will be over you in any matter concerning the Lord, and Zebadiah son of Ishmael, the leader of the tribe of Judah, will be over you in any matter concerning the king, and the Levites will serve as officials before you. Act with courage, and may the Lord be with those who do well.” <br/></span>
