---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\22.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>22</h1><h3>Ahaziah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_22_1"> <sup>1</sup>The people of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, Jehoram’s youngest son, king in his place, since the raiders, who came with the Arabs into the camp, had killed all the older sons. So Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah began to reign. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_2"> <sup>2</sup>Ahaziah was twenty-two<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 2 Kings 8:26); Hebrew forty-two">⚓</a> years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem one year. His mother’s name was Athaliah, a granddaughter of Omri. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_3"> <sup>3</sup>He too followed the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother encouraged him to act wickedly. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_4"><sup>4</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, as the house of Ahab had done, for after his father’s death they became his advisers, to his undoing. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_5"><sup>5</sup>He also followed their counsel when he went with Joram<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jehoram, a variant of Joram ; also in verses 6 and 7">⚓</a> son of Ahab king of Israel to wage war against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth Gilead. The Arameans wounded Joram; </span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_6"><sup>6</sup>so he returned to Jezreel to recover from the wounds they had inflicted on him at Ramoth<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Ramah, a variant of Ramoth">⚓</a> in his battle with Hazael king of Aram. <br/> Then Ahaziah<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac (see also 2 Kings 8:29); most Hebrew manuscripts Azariah">⚓</a> son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to Jezreel to see Joram son of Ahab because he had been wounded. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_7"> <sup>7</sup>Through Ahaziah’s visit to Joram, God brought about Ahaziah’s downfall. When Ahaziah arrived, he went out with Joram to meet Jehu son of Nimshi, whom the Lord had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_8"><sup>8</sup>While Jehu was executing judgment on the house of Ahab, he found the officials of Judah and the sons of Ahaziah’s relatives, who had been attending Ahaziah, and he killed them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_9"><sup>9</sup>He then went in search of Ahaziah, and his men captured him while he was hiding in Samaria. He was brought to Jehu and put to death. They buried him, for they said, “He was a son of Jehoshaphat, who sought the Lord with all his heart.” So there was no one in the house of Ahaziah powerful enough to retain the kingdom. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_10"> <sup>10</sup>When Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she proceeded to destroy the whole royal family of the house of Judah. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_11"><sup>11</sup>But Jehosheba,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jehoshabeath, a variant of Jehosheba">⚓</a> the daughter of King Jehoram, took Joash son of Ahaziah and stole him away from among the royal princes who were about to be murdered and put him and his nurse in a bedroom. Because Jehosheba,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jehoshabeath, a variant of Jehosheba">⚓</a> the daughter of King Jehoram and wife of the priest Jehoiada, was Ahaziah’s sister, she hid the child from Athaliah so she could not kill him. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_22_12"><sup>12</sup>He remained hidden with them at the temple of God for six years while Athaliah ruled the land. <br/></span>
