---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\24.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>24</h1><h3>Joash Repairs the Temple </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_24_1"> <sup>1</sup>Joash was seven years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem forty years. His mother’s name was Zibiah; she was from Beersheba. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_2"><sup>2</sup>Joash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord all the years of Jehoiada the priest. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_3"><sup>3</sup>Jehoiada chose two wives for him, and he had sons and daughters. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_4"> <sup>4</sup>Some time later Joash decided to restore the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_5"><sup>5</sup>He called together the priests and Levites and said to them, “Go to the towns of Judah and collect the money due annually from all Israel, to repair the temple of your God. Do it now.” But the Levites did not act at once. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_6"> <sup>6</sup>Therefore the king summoned Jehoiada the chief priest and said to him, “Why haven’t you required the Levites to bring in from Judah and Jerusalem the tax imposed by Moses the servant of the Lord and by the assembly of Israel for the tent of the covenant law?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_7"> <sup>7</sup>Now the sons of that wicked woman Athaliah had broken into the temple of God and had used even its sacred objects for the Baals. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_8"> <sup>8</sup>At the king’s command, a chest was made and placed outside, at the gate of the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_9"><sup>9</sup>A proclamation was then issued in Judah and Jerusalem that they should bring to the Lord the tax that Moses the servant of God had required of Israel in the wilderness. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_10"><sup>10</sup>All the officials and all the people brought their contributions gladly, dropping them into the chest until it was full. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_11"><sup>11</sup>Whenever the chest was brought in by the Levites to the king’s officials and they saw that there was a large amount of money, the royal secretary and the officer of the chief priest would come and empty the chest and carry it back to its place. They did this regularly and collected a great amount of money. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_12"><sup>12</sup>The king and Jehoiada gave it to those who carried out the work required for the temple of the Lord. They hired masons and carpenters to restore the Lord’s temple, and also workers in iron and bronze to repair the temple. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_13"> <sup>13</sup>The men in charge of the work were diligent, and the repairs progressed under them. They rebuilt the temple of God according to its original design and reinforced it. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_14"><sup>14</sup>When they had finished, they brought the rest of the money to the king and Jehoiada, and with it were made articles for the Lord’s temple: articles for the service and for the burnt offerings, and also dishes and other objects of gold and silver. As long as Jehoiada lived, burnt offerings were presented continually in the temple of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_15"> <sup>15</sup>Now Jehoiada was old and full of years, and he died at the age of a hundred and thirty. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_16"><sup>16</sup>He was buried with the kings in the City of David, because of the good he had done in Israel for God and his temple. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Wickedness of Joash </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_24_17"> <sup>17</sup>After the death of Jehoiada, the officials of Judah came and paid homage to the king, and he listened to them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_18"><sup>18</sup>They abandoned the temple of the Lord, the God of their ancestors, and worshiped Asherah poles and idols. Because of their guilt, God’s anger came on Judah and Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_19"><sup>19</sup>Although the Lord sent prophets to the people to bring them back to him, and though they testified against them, they would not listen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_20"> <sup>20</sup>Then the Spirit of God came on Zechariah son of Jehoiada the priest. He stood before the people and said, “This is what God says: ‘Why do you disobey the Lord’s commands? You will not prosper. Because you have forsaken the Lord, he has forsaken you.’ ” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_21"> <sup>21</sup>But they plotted against him, and by order of the king they stoned him to death in the courtyard of the Lord’s temple. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_22"><sup>22</sup>King Joash did not remember the kindness Zechariah’s father Jehoiada had shown him but killed his son, who said as he lay dying, “May the Lord see this and call you to account.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_23"> <sup>23</sup>At the turn of the year,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Probably in the spring">⚓</a> the army of Aram marched against Joash; it invaded Judah and Jerusalem and killed all the leaders of the people. They sent all the plunder to their king in Damascus. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_24"><sup>24</sup>Although the Aramean army had come with only a few men, the Lord delivered into their hands a much larger army. Because Judah had forsaken the Lord, the God of their ancestors, judgment was executed on Joash. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_25"><sup>25</sup>When the Arameans withdrew, they left Joash severely wounded. His officials conspired against him for murdering the son of Jehoiada the priest, and they killed him in his bed. So he died and was buried in the City of David, but not in the tombs of the kings. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_26"> <sup>26</sup>Those who conspired against him were Zabad,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A variant of Jozabad">⚓</a> son of Shimeath an Ammonite woman, and Jehozabad, son of Shimrith<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="A variant of Shomer">⚓</a> a Moabite woman. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_24_27"><sup>27</sup>The account of his sons, the many prophecies about him, and the record of the restoration of the temple of God are written in the annotations on the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
