---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\25.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>25</h1><h3>Amaziah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_25_1"> <sup>1</sup>Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem twenty-nine years. His mother’s name was Jehoaddan; she was from Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_2"><sup>2</sup>He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, but not wholeheartedly. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_3"><sup>3</sup>After the kingdom was firmly in his control, he executed the officials who had murdered his father the king. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_4"><sup>4</sup>Yet he did not put their children to death, but acted in accordance with what is written in the Law, in the Book of Moses, where the Lord commanded: “Parents shall not be put to death for their children, nor children be put to death for their parents; each will die for their own sin.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 24:16">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_5"> <sup>5</sup>Amaziah called the people of Judah together and assigned them according to their families to commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin. He then mustered those twenty years old or more and found that there were three hundred thousand men fit for military service, able to handle the spear and shield. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_6"><sup>6</sup>He also hired a hundred thousand fighting men from Israel for a hundred talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 3/4 tons or about 3.4 metric tons; also in verse 9">⚓</a> of silver. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_7"> <sup>7</sup>But a man of God came to him and said, “Your Majesty, these troops from Israel must not march with you, for the Lord is not with Israel—not with any of the people of Ephraim. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_8"><sup>8</sup>Even if you go and fight courageously in battle, God will overthrow you before the enemy, for God has the power to help or to overthrow.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_9"> <sup>9</sup>Amaziah asked the man of God, “But what about the hundred talents I paid for these Israelite troops?” <br/> The man of God replied, “The Lord can give you much more than that.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_10"> <sup>10</sup>So Amaziah dismissed the troops who had come to him from Ephraim and sent them home. They were furious with Judah and left for home in a great rage. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_11"> <sup>11</sup>Amaziah then marshaled his strength and led his army to the Valley of Salt, where he killed ten thousand men of Seir. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_12"><sup>12</sup>The army of Judah also captured ten thousand men alive, took them to the top of a cliff and threw them down so that all were dashed to pieces. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_13"> <sup>13</sup>Meanwhile the troops that Amaziah had sent back and had not allowed to take part in the war raided towns belonging to Judah from Samaria to Beth Horon. They killed three thousand people and carried off great quantities of plunder. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_14"> <sup>14</sup>When Amaziah returned from slaughtering the Edomites, he brought back the gods of the people of Seir. He set them up as his own gods, bowed down to them and burned sacrifices to them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_15"><sup>15</sup>The anger of the Lord burned against Amaziah, and he sent a prophet to him, who said, “Why do you consult this people’s gods, which could not save their own people from your hand?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_16"> <sup>16</sup>While he was still speaking, the king said to him, “Have we appointed you an adviser to the king? Stop! Why be struck down?” <br/> So the prophet stopped but said, “I know that God has determined to destroy you, because you have done this and have not listened to my counsel.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_17"> <sup>17</sup>After Amaziah king of Judah consulted his advisers, he sent this challenge to Jehoash<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Joash, a variant of Jehoash ; also in verses 18, 21, 23 and 25">⚓</a> son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel: “Come, let us face each other in battle.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_18"> <sup>18</sup>But Jehoash king of Israel replied to Amaziah king of Judah: “A thistle in Lebanon sent a message to a cedar in Lebanon, ‘Give your daughter to my son in marriage.’ Then a wild beast in Lebanon came along and trampled the thistle underfoot. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_19"><sup>19</sup>You say to yourself that you have defeated Edom, and now you are arrogant and proud. But stay at home! Why ask for trouble and cause your own downfall and that of Judah also?” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_20"> <sup>20</sup>Amaziah, however, would not listen, for God so worked that he might deliver them into the hands of Jehoash, because they sought the gods of Edom. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_21"><sup>21</sup>So Jehoash king of Israel attacked. He and Amaziah king of Judah faced each other at Beth Shemesh in Judah. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_22"><sup>22</sup>Judah was routed by Israel, and every man fled to his home. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_23"><sup>23</sup>Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash, the son of Ahaziah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Jehoahaz, a variant of Ahaziah">⚓</a> at Beth Shemesh. Then Jehoash brought him to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate—a section about four hundred cubits<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 600 feet or about 180 meters">⚓</a> long. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_24"><sup>24</sup>He took all the gold and silver and all the articles found in the temple of God that had been in the care of Obed-Edom, together with the palace treasures and the hostages, and returned to Samaria. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_25"> <sup>25</sup>Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah lived for fifteen years after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_26"><sup>26</sup>As for the other events of Amaziah’s reign, from beginning to end, are they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel? </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_27"><sup>27</sup>From the time that Amaziah turned away from following the Lord, they conspired against him in Jerusalem and he fled to Lachish, but they sent men after him to Lachish and killed him there. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_25_28"><sup>28</sup>He was brought back by horse and was buried with his ancestors in the City of Judah.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Most Hebrew manuscripts; some Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac (see also 2 Kings 14:20) David">⚓</a><br/></span>
