---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\26.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>26</h1><h3>Uzziah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_26_1"> <sup>1</sup>Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Also called Azariah">⚓</a> who was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of his father Amaziah. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_2"><sup>2</sup>He was the one who rebuilt Elath and restored it to Judah after Amaziah rested with his ancestors. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_3"> <sup>3</sup>Uzziah was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem fifty-two years. His mother’s name was Jekoliah; she was from Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_4"><sup>4</sup>He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father Amaziah had done. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_5"><sup>5</sup>He sought God during the days of Zechariah, who instructed him in the fear<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Many Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint and Syriac; other Hebrew manuscripts vision">⚓</a> of God. As long as he sought the Lord, God gave him success. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_6"> <sup>6</sup>He went to war against the Philistines and broke down the walls of Gath, Jabneh and Ashdod. He then rebuilt towns near Ashdod and elsewhere among the Philistines. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_7"><sup>7</sup>God helped him against the Philistines and against the Arabs who lived in Gur Baal and against the Meunites. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_8"><sup>8</sup>The Ammonites brought tribute to Uzziah, and his fame spread as far as the border of Egypt, because he had become very powerful. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_9"> <sup>9</sup>Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate, at the Valley Gate and at the angle of the wall, and he fortified them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_10"><sup>10</sup>He also built towers in the wilderness and dug many cisterns, because he had much livestock in the foothills and in the plain. He had people working his fields and vineyards in the hills and in the fertile lands, for he loved the soil. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_11"> <sup>11</sup>Uzziah had a well-trained army, ready to go out by divisions according to their numbers as mustered by Jeiel the secretary and Maaseiah the officer under the direction of Hananiah, one of the royal officials. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_12"><sup>12</sup>The total number of family leaders over the fighting men was 2,600. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_13"><sup>13</sup>Under their command was an army of 307,500 men trained for war, a powerful force to support the king against his enemies. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_14"><sup>14</sup>Uzziah provided shields, spears, helmets, coats of armor, bows and slingstones for the entire army. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_15"><sup>15</sup>In Jerusalem he made devices invented for use on the towers and on the corner defenses so that soldiers could shoot arrows and hurl large stones from the walls. His fame spread far and wide, for he was greatly helped until he became powerful. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_16"> <sup>16</sup>But after Uzziah became powerful, his pride led to his downfall. He was unfaithful to the Lord his God, and entered the temple of the Lord to burn incense on the altar of incense. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_17"><sup>17</sup>Azariah the priest with eighty other courageous priests of the Lord followed him in. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_18"><sup>18</sup>They confronted King Uzziah and said, “It is not right for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the Lord. That is for the priests, the descendants of Aaron, who have been consecrated to burn incense. Leave the sanctuary, for you have been unfaithful; and you will not be honored by the Lord God.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_19"> <sup>19</sup>Uzziah, who had a censer in his hand ready to burn incense, became angry. While he was raging at the priests in their presence before the incense altar in the Lord’s temple, leprosy<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Hebrew for leprosy was used for various diseases affecting the skin; also in verses 20, 21 and 23.">⚓</a> broke out on his forehead. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_20"><sup>20</sup>When Azariah the chief priest and all the other priests looked at him, they saw that he had leprosy on his forehead, so they hurried him out. Indeed, he himself was eager to leave, because the Lord had afflicted him. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_21"> <sup>21</sup>King Uzziah had leprosy until the day he died. He lived in a separate house<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in a house where he was relieved of responsibilities">⚓</a> —leprous, and banned from the temple of the Lord. Jotham his son had charge of the palace and governed the people of the land. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_22"> <sup>22</sup>The other events of Uzziah’s reign, from beginning to end, are recorded by the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_26_23"><sup>23</sup>Uzziah rested with his ancestors and was buried near them in a cemetery that belonged to the kings, for people said, “He had leprosy.” And Jotham his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
