---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\30.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>30</h1><h3>Hezekiah Celebrates the Passover </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_30_1"> <sup>1</sup>Hezekiah sent word to all Israel and Judah and also wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh, inviting them to come to the temple of the Lord in Jerusalem and celebrate the Passover to the Lord, the God of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_2"><sup>2</sup>The king and his officials and the whole assembly in Jerusalem decided to celebrate the Passover in the second month. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_3"><sup>3</sup>They had not been able to celebrate it at the regular time because not enough priests had consecrated themselves and the people had not assembled in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_4"><sup>4</sup>The plan seemed right both to the king and to the whole assembly. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_5"><sup>5</sup>They decided to send a proclamation throughout Israel, from Beersheba to Dan, calling the people to come to Jerusalem and celebrate the Passover to the Lord, the God of Israel. It had not been celebrated in large numbers according to what was written. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_6"> <sup>6</sup>At the king’s command, couriers went throughout Israel and Judah with letters from the king and from his officials, which read: <br/> “People of Israel, return to the Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, that he may return to you who are left, who have escaped from the hand of the kings of Assyria. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_7"><sup>7</sup>Do not be like your parents and your fellow Israelites, who were unfaithful to the Lord, the God of their ancestors, so that he made them an object of horror, as you see. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_8"><sup>8</sup>Do not be stiff-necked, as your ancestors were; submit to the Lord. Come to his sanctuary, which he has consecrated forever. Serve the Lord your God, so that his fierce anger will turn away from you. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_9"><sup>9</sup>If you return to the Lord, then your fellow Israelites and your children will be shown compassion by their captors and will return to this land, for the Lord your God is gracious and compassionate. He will not turn his face from you if you return to him.” <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_10"> <sup>10</sup>The couriers went from town to town in Ephraim and Manasseh, as far as Zebulun, but people scorned and ridiculed them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_11"><sup>11</sup>Nevertheless, some from Asher, Manasseh and Zebulun humbled themselves and went to Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_12"><sup>12</sup>Also in Judah the hand of God was on the people to give them unity of mind to carry out what the king and his officials had ordered, following the word of the Lord. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_13"> <sup>13</sup>A very large crowd of people assembled in Jerusalem to celebrate the Festival of Unleavened Bread in the second month. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_14"><sup>14</sup>They removed the altars in Jerusalem and cleared away the incense altars and threw them into the Kidron Valley. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_15"> <sup>15</sup>They slaughtered the Passover lamb on the fourteenth day of the second month. The priests and the Levites were ashamed and consecrated themselves and brought burnt offerings to the temple of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_16"><sup>16</sup>Then they took up their regular positions as prescribed in the Law of Moses the man of God. The priests splashed against the altar the blood handed to them by the Levites. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_17"><sup>17</sup>Since many in the crowd had not consecrated themselves, the Levites had to kill the Passover lambs for all those who were not ceremonially clean and could not consecrate their lambs<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or consecrate themselves">⚓</a> to the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_18"><sup>18</sup>Although most of the many people who came from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun had not purified themselves, yet they ate the Passover, contrary to what was written. But Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, “May the Lord, who is good, pardon everyone </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_19"><sup>19</sup>who sets their heart on seeking God—the Lord, the God of their ancestors—even if they are not clean according to the rules of the sanctuary.” </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_20"><sup>20</sup>And the Lord heard Hezekiah and healed the people. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_21"> <sup>21</sup>The Israelites who were present in Jerusalem celebrated the Festival of Unleavened Bread for seven days with great rejoicing, while the Levites and priests praised the Lord every day with resounding instruments dedicated to the Lord.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or priests sang to the Lordevery day, accompanied by the Lord’s instruments of praise">⚓</a><br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_22"> <sup>22</sup>Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites, who showed good understanding of the service of the Lord. For the seven days they ate their assigned portion and offered fellowship offerings and praised<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and confessed their sins to">⚓</a> the Lord, the God of their ancestors. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_23"> <sup>23</sup>The whole assembly then agreed to celebrate the festival seven more days; so for another seven days they celebrated joyfully. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_24"><sup>24</sup>Hezekiah king of Judah provided a thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep and goats for the assembly, and the officials provided them with a thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep and goats. A great number of priests consecrated themselves. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_25"><sup>25</sup>The entire assembly of Judah rejoiced, along with the priests and Levites and all who had assembled from Israel, including the foreigners who had come from Israel and also those who resided in Judah. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_26"><sup>26</sup>There was great joy in Jerusalem, for since the days of Solomon son of David king of Israel there had been nothing like this in Jerusalem. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_30_27"><sup>27</sup>The priests and the Levites stood to bless the people, and God heard them, for their prayer reached heaven, his holy dwelling place. <br/></span>
