---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\33.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>33</h1><h3>Manasseh King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_33_1"> <sup>1</sup>Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem fifty-five years. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_2"><sup>2</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, following the detestable practices of the nations the Lord had driven out before the Israelites. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_3"><sup>3</sup>He rebuilt the high places his father Hezekiah had demolished; he also erected altars to the Baals and made Asherah poles. He bowed down to all the starry hosts and worshiped them. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_4"><sup>4</sup>He built altars in the temple of the Lord, of which the Lord had said, “My Name will remain in Jerusalem forever.” </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_5"><sup>5</sup>In both courts of the temple of the Lord, he built altars to all the starry hosts. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_6"><sup>6</sup>He sacrificed his children in the fire in the Valley of Ben Hinnom, practiced divination and witchcraft, sought omens, and consulted mediums and spiritists. He did much evil in the eyes of the Lord, arousing his anger. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_7"> <sup>7</sup>He took the image he had made and put it in God’s temple, of which God had said to David and to his son Solomon, “In this temple and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my Name forever. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_8"><sup>8</sup>I will not again make the feet of the Israelites leave the land I assigned to your ancestors, if only they will be careful to do everything I commanded them concerning all the laws, decrees and regulations given through Moses.” </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_9"><sup>9</sup>But Manasseh led Judah and the people of Jerusalem astray, so that they did more evil than the nations the Lord had destroyed before the Israelites. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_10"> <sup>10</sup>The Lord spoke to Manasseh and his people, but they paid no attention. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_11"><sup>11</sup>So the Lord brought against them the army commanders of the king of Assyria, who took Manasseh prisoner, put a hook in his nose, bound him with bronze shackles and took him to Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_12"><sup>12</sup>In his distress he sought the favor of the Lord his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his ancestors. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_13"><sup>13</sup>And when he prayed to him, the Lord was moved by his entreaty and listened to his plea; so he brought him back to Jerusalem and to his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord is God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_14"> <sup>14</sup>Afterward he rebuilt the outer wall of the City of David, west of the Gihon spring in the valley, as far as the entrance of the Fish Gate and encircling the hill of Ophel; he also made it much higher. He stationed military commanders in all the fortified cities in Judah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_15"> <sup>15</sup>He got rid of the foreign gods and removed the image from the temple of the Lord, as well as all the altars he had built on the temple hill and in Jerusalem; and he threw them out of the city. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_16"><sup>16</sup>Then he restored the altar of the Lord and sacrificed fellowship offerings and thank offerings on it, and told Judah to serve the Lord, the God of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_17"><sup>17</sup>The people, however, continued to sacrifice at the high places, but only to the Lord their God. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_18"> <sup>18</sup>The other events of Manasseh’s reign, including his prayer to his God and the words the seers spoke to him in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, are written in the annals of the kings of Israel.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, Judah, as frequently in 2 Chronicles">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_19"><sup>19</sup>His prayer and how God was moved by his entreaty, as well as all his sins and unfaithfulness, and the sites where he built high places and set up Asherah poles and idols before he humbled himself—all these are written in the records of the seers.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="One Hebrew manuscript and Septuagint; most Hebrew manuscripts of Hozai">⚓</a></span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_20"><sup>20</sup>Manasseh rested with his ancestors and was buried in his palace. And Amon his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Amon King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_33_21"> <sup>21</sup>Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem two years. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_22"><sup>22</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord, as his father Manasseh had done. Amon worshiped and offered sacrifices to all the idols Manasseh had made. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_23"><sup>23</sup>But unlike his father Manasseh, he did not humble himself before the Lord; Amon increased his guilt. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_24"> <sup>24</sup>Amon’s officials conspired against him and assassinated him in his palace. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_33_25"><sup>25</sup>Then the people of the land killed all who had plotted against King Amon, and they made Josiah his son king in his place. <br/></span>
