---
translation: NIV
group: HISTORY
bookName: II Chronicles 
bookNumber: 14
audio: \Audio\NIV\2su\36.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>36</h1></div>
<span class="verse 2su_36_1"> <sup>1</sup>And the people of the land took Jehoahaz son of Josiah and made him king in Jerusalem in place of his father. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoahaz King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_36_2"> <sup>2</sup>Jehoahaz<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew Joahaz, a variant of Jehoahaz ; also in verse 4">⚓</a> was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_3"><sup>3</sup>The king of Egypt dethroned him in Jerusalem and imposed on Judah a levy of a hundred talents<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 3 3/4 tons or about 3.4 metric tons">⚓</a> of silver and a talent<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="That is, about 75 pounds or about 34 kilograms">⚓</a> of gold. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_4"><sup>4</sup>The king of Egypt made Eliakim, a brother of Jehoahaz, king over Judah and Jerusalem and changed Eliakim’s name to Jehoiakim. But Necho took Eliakim’s brother Jehoahaz and carried him off to Egypt. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoiakim King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_36_5"> <sup>5</sup>Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eleven years. He did evil in the eyes of the Lord his God. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_6"><sup>6</sup>Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon attacked him and bound him with bronze shackles to take him to Babylon. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_7"><sup>7</sup>Nebuchadnezzar also took to Babylon articles from the temple of the Lord and put them in his temple<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or palace">⚓</a> there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_8"> <sup>8</sup>The other events of Jehoiakim’s reign, the detestable things he did and all that was found against him, are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son succeeded him as king. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Jehoiachin King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_36_9"> <sup>9</sup>Jehoiachin was eighteen<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="One Hebrew manuscript, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 2 Kings 24:8); most Hebrew manuscripts eight">⚓</a> years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months and ten days. He did evil in the eyes of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_10"><sup>10</sup>In the spring, King Nebuchadnezzar sent for him and brought him to Babylon, together with articles of value from the temple of the Lord, and he made Jehoiachin’s uncle,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Hebrew brother, that is, relative (see 2 Kings 24:17)">⚓</a> Zedekiah, king over Judah and Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Zedekiah King of Judah </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_36_11"> <sup>11</sup>Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eleven years. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_12"><sup>12</sup>He did evil in the eyes of the Lord his God and did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet, who spoke the word of the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_13"><sup>13</sup>He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him take an oath in God’s name. He became stiff-necked and hardened his heart and would not turn to the Lord, the God of Israel. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_14"><sup>14</sup>Furthermore, all the leaders of the priests and the people became more and more unfaithful, following all the detestable practices of the nations and defiling the temple of the Lord, which he had consecrated in Jerusalem. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Fall of Jerusalem </h3></div>
<span class="verse 2su_36_15"> <sup>15</sup>The Lord, the God of their ancestors, sent word to them through his messengers again and again, because he had pity on his people and on his dwelling place. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_16"><sup>16</sup>But they mocked God’s messengers, despised his words and scoffed at his prophets until the wrath of the Lord was aroused against his people and there was no remedy. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_17"><sup>17</sup>He brought up against them the king of the Babylonians,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or Chaldeans">⚓</a> who killed their young men with the sword in the sanctuary, and did not spare young men or young women, the elderly or the infirm. God gave them all into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_18"><sup>18</sup>He carried to Babylon all the articles from the temple of God, both large and small, and the treasures of the Lord’s temple and the treasures of the king and his officials. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_19"><sup>19</sup>They set fire to God’s temple and broke down the wall of Jerusalem; they burned all the palaces and destroyed everything of value there. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_20"> <sup>20</sup>He carried into exile to Babylon the remnant, who escaped from the sword, and they became servants to him and his successors until the kingdom of Persia came to power. </span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_21"><sup>21</sup>The land enjoyed its sabbath rests; all the time of its desolation it rested, until the seventy years were completed in fulfillment of the word of the Lord spoken by Jeremiah. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_22"> <sup>22</sup>In the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, in order to fulfill the word of the Lord spoken by Jeremiah, the Lord moved the heart of Cyrus king of Persia to make a proclamation throughout his realm and also to put it in writing: <br/></span>
<span class="verse 2su_36_23"> <sup>23</sup>“This is what Cyrus king of Persia says: <br/> “ ‘The Lord, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth and he has appointed me to build a temple for him at Jerusalem in Judah. Any of his people among you may go up, and may the Lord their God be with them.’ ” <br/></span>
