---
translation: NIV
group: GENERAL LETTERS
bookName: III John 
bookNumber: 64
audio: \Audio\NIV\3gi\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>The elder, <br/> To my dear friend Gaius, whom I love in the truth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>Dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well. </span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_3"><sup>3</sup>It gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling how you continue to walk in it. </span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_4"><sup>4</sup>I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_5"> <sup>5</sup>Dear friend, you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family.">⚓</a> even though they are strangers to you. </span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_6"><sup>6</sup>They have told the church about your love. Please send them on their way in a manner that honors God. </span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_7"><sup>7</sup>It was for the sake of the Name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. </span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_8"><sup>8</sup>We ought therefore to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_9"> <sup>9</sup>I wrote to the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to be first, will not welcome us. </span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_10"><sup>10</sup>So when I come, I will call attention to what he is doing, spreading malicious nonsense about us. Not satisfied with that, he even refuses to welcome other believers. He also stops those who want to do so and puts them out of the church. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_11"> <sup>11</sup>Dear friend, do not imitate what is evil but what is good. Anyone who does what is good is from God. Anyone who does what is evil has not seen God. </span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_12"><sup>12</sup>Demetrius is well spoken of by everyone—and even by the truth itself. We also speak well of him, and you know that our testimony is true. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_13"> <sup>13</sup>I have much to write you, but I do not want to do so with pen and ink. </span>
<span class="verse 3gi_1_14"><sup>14</sup>I hope to see you soon, and we will talk face to face. <br/> Peace to you. The friends here send their greetings. Greet the friends there by name. <br/></span>
