---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Philippians 
bookNumber: 50
audio: \Audio\NIV\phi\2.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>2</h1><h3>Imitating Christ’s Humility </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_2_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore if you have any encouragement from being united with Christ, if any comfort from his love, if any common sharing in the Spirit, if any tenderness and compassion, </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_2"><sup>2</sup>then make my joy complete by being like-minded, having the same love, being one in spirit and of one mind. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_3"><sup>3</sup>Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit. Rather, in humility value others above yourselves, </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_4"><sup>4</sup>not looking to your own interests but each of you to the interests of the others. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_5"> <sup>5</sup>In your relationships with one another, have the same mindset as Christ Jesus: <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_6">  <sup>6</sup>Who, being in very nature<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or in the form of">⚓</a> God, <br/>   did not consider equality with God something to be used to his own advantage; <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_7">  <sup>7</sup>rather, he made himself nothing <br/>   by taking the very nature<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or the form">⚓</a> of a servant, <br/>   being made in human likeness. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_8">  <sup>8</sup>And being found in appearance as a man, <br/>   he humbled himself <br/>   by becoming obedient to death— <br/>    even death on a cross! <br/><br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_9">  <sup>9</sup>Therefore God exalted him to the highest place <br/>   and gave him the name that is above every name, <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_10">  <sup>10</sup>that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, <br/>   in heaven and on earth and under the earth, <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_11">  <sup>11</sup>and every tongue acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord, <br/>   to the glory of God the Father. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Do Everything Without Grumbling </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_2_12"> <sup>12</sup>Therefore, my dear friends, as you have always obeyed—not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence—continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling, </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_13"><sup>13</sup>for it is God who works in you to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_14"> <sup>14</sup>Do everything without grumbling or arguing, </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_15"><sup>15</sup>so that you may become blameless and pure, “children of God without fault in a warped and crooked generation.”<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Deut. 32:5">⚓</a> Then you will shine among them like stars in the sky </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_16"><sup>16</sup>as you hold firmly to the word of life. And then I will be able to boast on the day of Christ that I did not run or labor in vain. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_17"><sup>17</sup>But even if I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service coming from your faith, I am glad and rejoice with all of you. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_18"><sup>18</sup>So you too should be glad and rejoice with me. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Timothy and Epaphroditus </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_2_19"> <sup>19</sup>I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I also may be cheered when I receive news about you. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_20"><sup>20</sup>I have no one else like him, who will show genuine concern for your welfare. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_21"><sup>21</sup>For everyone looks out for their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_22"><sup>22</sup>But you know that Timothy has proved himself, because as a son with his father he has served with me in the work of the gospel. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_23"><sup>23</sup>I hope, therefore, to send him as soon as I see how things go with me. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_24"><sup>24</sup>And I am confident in the Lord that I myself will come soon. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_2_25"> <sup>25</sup>But I think it is necessary to send back to you Epaphroditus, my brother, co-worker and fellow soldier, who is also your messenger, whom you sent to take care of my needs. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_26"><sup>26</sup>For he longs for all of you and is distressed because you heard he was ill. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_27"><sup>27</sup>Indeed he was ill, and almost died. But God had mercy on him, and not on him only but also on me, to spare me sorrow upon sorrow. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_28"><sup>28</sup>Therefore I am all the more eager to send him, so that when you see him again you may be glad and I may have less anxiety. </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_29"><sup>29</sup>So then, welcome him in the Lord with great joy, and honor people like him, </span>
<span class="verse phi_2_30"><sup>30</sup>because he almost died for the work of Christ. He risked his life to make up for the help you yourselves could not give me. <br/></span>
