---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Philippians 
bookNumber: 50
audio: \Audio\NIV\phi\3.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>3</h1><h3>No Confidence in the Flesh </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_3_1"> <sup>1</sup>Further, my brothers and sisters, rejoice in the Lord! It is no trouble for me to write the same things to you again, and it is a safeguard for you. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_2"><sup>2</sup>Watch out for those dogs, those evildoers, those mutilators of the flesh. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_3"><sup>3</sup>For it is we who are the circumcision, we who serve God by his Spirit, who boast in Christ Jesus, and who put no confidence in the flesh— </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_4"><sup>4</sup>though I myself have reasons for such confidence. <br/> If someone else thinks they have reasons to put confidence in the flesh, I have more: </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_5"><sup>5</sup>circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; in regard to the law, a Pharisee; </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_6"><sup>6</sup>as for zeal, persecuting the church; as for righteousness based on the law, faultless. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_3_7"> <sup>7</sup>But whatever were gains to me I now consider loss for the sake of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_8"><sup>8</sup>What is more, I consider everything a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them garbage, that I may gain Christ </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_9"><sup>9</sup>and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or through the faithfulness of">⚓</a> Christ—the righteousness that comes from God on the basis of faith. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_10"><sup>10</sup>I want to know Christ—yes, to know the power of his resurrection and participation in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_11"><sup>11</sup>and so, somehow, attaining to the resurrection from the dead. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_3_12"> <sup>12</sup>Not that I have already obtained all this, or have already arrived at my goal, but I press on to take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of me. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_13"><sup>13</sup>Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it. But one thing I do: Forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead, </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_14"><sup>14</sup>I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Following Paul’s Example </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_3_15"> <sup>15</sup>All of us, then, who are mature should take such a view of things. And if on some point you think differently, that too God will make clear to you. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_16"><sup>16</sup>Only let us live up to what we have already attained. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_3_17"> <sup>17</sup>Join together in following my example, brothers and sisters, and just as you have us as a model, keep your eyes on those who live as we do. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_18"><sup>18</sup>For, as I have often told you before and now tell you again even with tears, many live as enemies of the cross of Christ. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_19"><sup>19</sup>Their destiny is destruction, their god is their stomach, and their glory is in their shame. Their mind is set on earthly things. </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_20"><sup>20</sup>But our citizenship is in heaven. And we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ, </span>
<span class="verse phi_3_21"><sup>21</sup>who, by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control, will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like his glorious body. <br/></span>
