---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: Philippians 
bookNumber: 50
audio: \Audio\NIV\phi\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1><h3>Closing Appeal for Steadfastness and Unity </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>Therefore, my brothers and sisters, you whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm in the Lord in this way, dear friends! <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_4_2"> <sup>2</sup>I plead with Euodia and I plead with Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_3"><sup>3</sup>Yes, and I ask you, my true companion, help these women since they have contended at my side in the cause of the gospel, along with Clement and the rest of my co-workers, whose names are in the book of life. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Exhortations </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_4_4"> <sup>4</sup>Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again: Rejoice! </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_5"><sup>5</sup>Let your gentleness be evident to all. The Lord is near. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_6"><sup>6</sup>Do not be anxious about anything, but in every situation, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_7"><sup>7</sup>And the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_4_8"> <sup>8</sup>Finally, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable—if anything is excellent or praiseworthy—think about such things. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_9"><sup>9</sup>Whatever you have learned or received or heard from me, or seen in me—put it into practice. And the God of peace will be with you. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Thanks for Their Gifts </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_4_10"> <sup>10</sup>I rejoiced greatly in the Lord that at last you renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you were concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_11"><sup>11</sup>I am not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_12"><sup>12</sup>I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_13"><sup>13</sup>I can do all this through him who gives me strength. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_4_14"> <sup>14</sup>Yet it was good of you to share in my troubles. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_15"><sup>15</sup>Moreover, as you Philippians know, in the early days of your acquaintance with the gospel, when I set out from Macedonia, not one church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, except you only; </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_16"><sup>16</sup>for even when I was in Thessalonica, you sent me aid more than once when I was in need. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_17"><sup>17</sup>Not that I desire your gifts; what I desire is that more be credited to your account. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_18"><sup>18</sup>I have received full payment and have more than enough. I am amply supplied, now that I have received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent. They are a fragrant offering, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_19"><sup>19</sup>And my God will meet all your needs according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_4_20"> <sup>20</sup>To our God and Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Greetings </h3></div>
<span class="verse phi_4_21"> <sup>21</sup>Greet all God’s people in Christ Jesus. The brothers and sisters who are with me send greetings. </span>
<span class="verse phi_4_22"><sup>22</sup>All God’s people here send you greetings, especially those who belong to Caesar’s household. <br/></span>
<span class="verse phi_4_23"> <sup>23</sup>The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Some manuscripts do not have Amen .">⚓</a><br/></span>
