---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Timothy 
bookNumber: 54
audio: \Audio\NIV\1ti\1.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>1</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_1"> <sup>1</sup>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope, <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_2"> <sup>2</sup>To Timothy my true son in the faith: <br/> Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Timothy Charged to Oppose False Teachers </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_3"> <sup>3</sup>As I urged you when I went into Macedonia, stay there in Ephesus so that you may command certain people not to teach false doctrines any longer </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_4"><sup>4</sup>or to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies. Such things promote controversial speculations rather than advancing God’s work—which is by faith. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_5"><sup>5</sup>The goal of this command is love, which comes from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_6"><sup>6</sup>Some have departed from these and have turned to meaningless talk. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_7"><sup>7</sup>They want to be teachers of the law, but they do not know what they are talking about or what they so confidently affirm. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_8"> <sup>8</sup>We know that the law is good if one uses it properly. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_9"><sup>9</sup>We also know that the law is made not for the righteous but for lawbreakers and rebels, the ungodly and sinful, the unholy and irreligious, for those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers, </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_10"><sup>10</sup>for the sexually immoral, for those practicing homosexuality, for slave traders and liars and perjurers—and for whatever else is contrary to the sound doctrine </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_11"><sup>11</sup>that conforms to the gospel concerning the glory of the blessed God, which he entrusted to me. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Lord’s Grace to Paul </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_12"> <sup>12</sup>I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has given me strength, that he considered me trustworthy, appointing me to his service. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_13"><sup>13</sup>Even though I was once a blasphemer and a persecutor and a violent man, I was shown mercy because I acted in ignorance and unbelief. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_14"><sup>14</sup>The grace of our Lord was poured out on me abundantly, along with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_15"> <sup>15</sup>Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners—of whom I am the worst. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_16"><sup>16</sup>But for that very reason I was shown mercy so that in me, the worst of sinners, Christ Jesus might display his immense patience as an example for those who would believe in him and receive eternal life. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_17"><sup>17</sup>Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>The Charge to Timothy Renewed </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_18"> <sup>18</sup>Timothy, my son, I am giving you this command in keeping with the prophecies once made about you, so that by recalling them you may fight the battle well, </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_19"><sup>19</sup>holding on to faith and a good conscience, which some have rejected and so have suffered shipwreck with regard to the faith. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_1_20"><sup>20</sup>Among them are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan to be taught not to blaspheme. <br/></span>
