---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Timothy 
bookNumber: 54
audio: \Audio\NIV\1ti\4.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>4</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_1"> <sup>1</sup>The Spirit clearly says that in later times some will abandon the faith and follow deceiving spirits and things taught by demons. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_2"><sup>2</sup>Such teachings come through hypocritical liars, whose consciences have been seared as with a hot iron. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_3"><sup>3</sup>They forbid people to marry and order them to abstain from certain foods, which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and who know the truth. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_4"><sup>4</sup>For everything God created is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving, </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_5"><sup>5</sup>because it is consecrated by the word of God and prayer. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_6"> <sup>6</sup>If you point these things out to the brothers and sisters,<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="The Greek word for brothers and sisters (adelphoi ) refers here to believers, both men and women, as part of God’s family.">⚓</a> you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus, nourished on the truths of the faith and of the good teaching that you have followed. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_7"><sup>7</sup>Have nothing to do with godless myths and old wives’ tales; rather, train yourself to be godly. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_8"><sup>8</sup>For physical training is of some value, but godliness has value for all things, holding promise for both the present life and the life to come. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_9"><sup>9</sup>This is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_10"><sup>10</sup>That is why we labor and strive, because we have put our hope in the living God, who is the Savior of all people, and especially of those who believe. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_11"> <sup>11</sup>Command and teach these things. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_12"><sup>12</sup>Don’t let anyone look down on you because you are young, but set an example for the believers in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith and in purity. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_13"><sup>13</sup>Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to preaching and to teaching. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_14"><sup>14</sup>Do not neglect your gift, which was given you through prophecy when the body of elders laid their hands on you. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_15"> <sup>15</sup>Be diligent in these matters; give yourself wholly to them, so that everyone may see your progress. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_4_16"><sup>16</sup>Watch your life and doctrine closely. Persevere in them, because if you do, you will save both yourself and your hearers. <br/></span>
