---
translation: NIV
group: LETTERS OF PAUL
bookName: I Timothy 
bookNumber: 54
audio: \Audio\NIV\1ti\6.mp3
---

<div class="title"><h1>6</h1></div>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_1"> <sup>1</sup>All who are under the yoke of slavery should consider their masters worthy of full respect, so that God’s name and our teaching may not be slandered. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_2"><sup>2</sup>Those who have believing masters should not show them disrespect just because they are fellow believers. Instead, they should serve them even better because their masters are dear to them as fellow believers and are devoted to the welfare<a data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="bottom" title="Or and benefit from the service">⚓</a> of their slaves. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>False Teachers and the Love of Money </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_2"> These are the things you are to teach and insist on. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_3"><sup>3</sup>If anyone teaches otherwise and does not agree to the sound instruction of our Lord Jesus Christ and to godly teaching, </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_4"><sup>4</sup>they are conceited and understand nothing. They have an unhealthy interest in controversies and quarrels about words that result in envy, strife, malicious talk, evil suspicions </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_5"><sup>5</sup>and constant friction between people of corrupt mind, who have been robbed of the truth and who think that godliness is a means to financial gain. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_6"> <sup>6</sup>But godliness with contentment is great gain. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_7"><sup>7</sup>For we brought nothing into the world, and we can take nothing out of it. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_8"><sup>8</sup>But if we have food and clothing, we will be content with that. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_9"><sup>9</sup>Those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_10"><sup>10</sup>For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people, eager for money, have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs. <br/></span>
<div class="title"><h3>Final Charge to Timothy </h3></div>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_11"> <sup>11</sup>But you, man of God, flee from all this, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance and gentleness. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_12"><sup>12</sup>Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called when you made your good confession in the presence of many witnesses. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_13"><sup>13</sup>In the sight of God, who gives life to everything, and of Christ Jesus, who while testifying before Pontius Pilate made the good confession, I charge you </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_14"><sup>14</sup>to keep this command without spot or blame until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_15"><sup>15</sup>which God will bring about in his own time—God, the blessed and only Ruler, the King of kings and Lord of lords, </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_16"><sup>16</sup>who alone is immortal and who lives in unapproachable light, whom no one has seen or can see. To him be honor and might forever. Amen. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_17"> <sup>17</sup>Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain, but to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_18"><sup>18</sup>Command them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous and willing to share. </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_19"><sup>19</sup>In this way they will lay up treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age, so that they may take hold of the life that is truly life. <br/></span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_20"> <sup>20</sup>Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to your care. Turn away from godless chatter and the opposing ideas of what is falsely called knowledge, </span>
<span class="verse 1ti_6_21"><sup>21</sup>which some have professed and in so doing have departed from the faith. <br/> Grace be with you all. <br/></span>
